Friday May 27, 2005 – I got off work at the ALPA at 2pm today.  Just this morning Yen and I had decided to go camping for the long-weekend.  Our destination was the GW forest by Wardensville, over to Seneca Rocks and Blackwater Falls.  Traffic, of course, was a problem by the time Yen made it out to my place in Herndon so we decided an early start Saturday morning would easier.
Saturday following our close to 3 hour drive from Herndon we hiked up the back side of Seneca Rocks, and got some nice photos from within the “realm of the climber” area.  We saw people rock climbing.  
Following the Seneca Rocks hike we popped over to Spruce Knob, the highest point in West Virginia, just 20 or so miles away. This was my second time to Spruce Knob having been here Labor Day, Sept 3, 2001 with friends Jim Dyal and Eric Parker.  
After checking out the summit tower, and taking a few photos we drove to Spruce Knob Lake and took a gravel road to Job, and on to Harman, and through the Canaan Valley to Black Water Falls about 60 miles to the north. It was rainy when we arrived and really too late in the evening to look around so we drove into the Monongahela Forest to find a free remote camp spot.  We found it difficult to find a suitable spot but eventually did. 
Sunday morning we climbed up Olsen’s tower, and then drove into Davis, WV for lunch.  Our next stop was the beautiful Blackwater Falls.  From Blackwater we headed toward the WV/MD state line and Backbone Mountain. The trail to Backbone Mountain is a rough logging type road, since my Isuzu has four wheel drive we drove up it until it got to rough and then we walked the rest of the way to the highest spot in Maryland (3360 feet).  The highpoint is called Hoye Crest and contains a large sign on a metal post.  Backbone Mountain crosses the border of Maryland and runs into West Virginia.
Heading back down, someone had parked on the logging road, and we were lucky to be able to just barely squeeze past the fool’s car, as we returned to the highway and drove 70 plus miles to the GW Forest at Wardenville, WV where we camped for the night.
Monday we hung out at our camp and cooked on the fire.  It was 4pm in the afternoon when we got back to Herndon.
Eventful and fun long-weekend!
