November 28, 2009 Lucy and I climbed Gobblers Knob.  We thought Gobblers was a good choice for the Thanksgiving weekend, since turkeys say gob-al gob-al!!!!  ?

We followed the 4.5 mile long Bowman Fork trail from Mill Creek Canyon to the 10,246 ft  peak.  Due to packed icy snow on the lower sections of the trail, and also do to trail break conditions higher up the ascent was quite slow and tiring taking us almost five hours. 

When we reached the 10,224 ft false summit we noticed some thing moving about 10 feet below the true summit.  At first we thought it was a couple other hikers, and then we thought it was a stump, and finally Lucy's sharp eye correctly identified it as a moose.  In spite of the risk we continued to the true summit by trending lightly behind the other side of the ridge so as not to spook the moose.  On the peak we took a few photos and soon headed down before we got cold.

On the descent we went straight down the NW aspect of the mountain as it was wind loaded with snow but not deep enough to present any avalanche concerns.  After a full nine hour day we returned to the car a little more beat up than when we left!

1.	The north face of Raymond Peak as seen from the Bowman Fork trail.
2.	The Cottonwood ridge, with Broad Fork Twin peaks on the right side.
3.	The east side of Raymond Peak as seen from the saddle between Raymond and Gobblers Knob.
4.	Kessler Peak with the infamous Argenta slide path clearly visible.
5.	Lucy strolling between Gobblers false summit and its true summit.
6.	We finally confirm the moving object below the true summit is a moose.
7.	Moose – really?  What the heck is it doing up there?
8.	Zoomed view of the moose.
9.	1:00 pm, November 28, 2009 Lucy and Walter on the 10, 246 ft peak of Gobblers Knob.
10.	Lucy with the view to the North behind.
11.	Walter with the view to the North behind.
12.	Lucy with the NW view behind showing the Salt Lake Valley.
13.	The smoggy Salt Lake Valley.
14.	Lucy descending the NW face.
15.	Lucy enjoying the snow.

