Gannett Peak, WY, 13,804 ft. – August 19, 2009, HP #6: The Titcomb basin area could very well be the most beautiful natural place I have been in the USA.
Wanting to resume a slower pace of life, and to have closer access to outdoor activities -- especially winter activities like snow skiing – I had moved to Utah in August 2005.  Before the move I had lined up a full-time web development job with a small startup company located in Utah County.  Six months into that job I found a more promising one in the same field, and by October 2006 I had purchased a home in Orem.
The first two winters were big snow seasons, and the skiing was excellent.  Outside of ski season I began doing a fair amount of hiking not unlike when I lived in Virginia.  Between arriving in Utah and my climb of Kings Peak just over a year later, I climbed six additional mountains, and I was trying to figure out how to get into mountaineering so I could explore snow covered peaks.  This desire, along with my love of skiing, lead me not only into mountaineering but also into backcountry skiing, and eventually into rock climbing. 
When I climbed Gannett Peak in 2009 I was by then a pretty serious mountaineer (or at least an experienced mountain adventurer) having completed 150 mountain climbs spanning all seasons of the year. I must admit the fact that Gannett Peak is a state high point was not the driving force behind my desire to face it. I took it on as a mountaineering challenge, and for the beauty and thrill of climbing it.
Through my frequent excursions into the mountains, I had started rubbing shoulders with a few members of the Salt Lake City based Wasatch Mountain Club (however I have never been a member), and had skied the Trinity Chutes of Mount Shasta, CA with a couple of them in May 2009.  Unofficially, outside the club, six of them had purposed tackling Gannett Peak, and I was invited to join them.  We planned a trip for the end of August 2009 trusting that the summer bugs would be on the decline by then.
August 16, 2009 the seven of us meet up in a suburb of Salt Lake City, loaded into three cars then drove northwest 240 miles to the small Wyoming town of Pinedale.  From Pinedale it is about a 15 mile drive along the eastern shore of Freemont Lake to Elkhart Park where Skyline Drive ends.  A campground and a parking area is located there, as is the Pole Creek trail trailhead which is the first of a series of trails which combined take trekkers into the breathtaking Titcomb basin.  We arrived in the evening and spent the night at the campground at an elevation of 9280 feet with temperatures dropping below freezing.
It is close to 23 miles from Elkhart Park to the top of Wyoming, making it over 45 miles roundtrip with over 9000 feet of elevation gain.  We didn’t want to overexert ourselves so our plan was to take two days to backpack into the upper Titcomb Lake, where we would set up what we called basecamp from which we would go for the peak. Needless to say, taking on Gannett Peak is a pretty serious quest.
Having two days for the approach it seemed like we were not in a rush and we didn’t begin hiking Monday August 17, 2009 until after 9 am.  We reached Photographer Point (10,350 ft.), 4.5 miles into our journey, at around lunch time, and I was hungry and not feeling any need to hurry.  After snapping a few photos the rest of the group conversely, all of a sudden, was in a hurry and didn’t linger around.  I decided to not worry about it and just enjoyed my lunch anyway, catching up with them soon enough only to find out at least one of them was upset with me.  Being confident and comfortable in the outdoors alone, and having everything I needed with me, I wasn’t at all concern about it, but was still wondering why none of them had stopped for lunch.
By 1:40 pm we had covered 7.5 miles having reached the Seneca Lake outlet giving us an average of 1.7 miles per hour – not bad with full backpacks on uneven ground. Two miles further along at just before 3pm we stopped for the day and set up our camp at the north end of Seneca Lake prior to Little Seneca Lake.  About half way between the lake outlet and its northern end we had encounter a dead horse just below the switch backs west of Seneca Lake (around inbound mile 8.5).  We wondered if the owner, or someone, would return to dynamite it into small compostable pieces as there was no chance it was going to be removed from the area.
August 18 we broke camp, again at a leisurely pace, heading north on the Seneca Lake trail by 10 am. After just one mile our destination put us on the Indian Pass trail still traveling north.  The scenery of granite mountains like Freemont peak, along with boulders everywhere and multiple lakes was incredible.  On the rise above Island Lake we caught a glimpse of our goal, Gannett Peak, and the pass, Bonney Pass, we would have to traverse to reach it.  A half an hour later we were at the south end of Island Lake still enchanted with the spectacular backdrop.  I will go out on a limb here and say the Titcomb basin area could very well be the most beautiful natural place I have been in the USA.  We continued around the east side of Island Lake traversing its sandy beaches. As we left Island Lake, now on the Titcomb Basin trail, we paused for lunch at noon, and a half an hour later we encountered our first section of snow, but not enough to warrant crampons.
Less than 3 hours into the day’s journey we reached the lower Titcomb Lake. Northeast of the Upper Titcomb Lake at around 10,600 feet, still in the early afternoon, we choose a spot for our basecamp. We had covered 6.5 miles for the day.  When the comfortable breeze would stop we had a lot of mosquitoes to deal with.  To pass the time we relaxed in our tents, filtered water, and made dinner.  After dinner some played cards until dark.  Layered clothing, and even ski hats, were needed to stay warm when you weren’t exerting yourself. Our basecamp was located 2.5 miles from the top of the 12,800 ft. Bonney Pass, and approximately 7 miles from the 13,804 ft. summit.   
Day three was summit day and we got an early start leaving camp at 6 am which isn’t a crazy alpine early start. At the bottom of the snow covered Bonney pass, with the sun starting to come up, we donned our gaiters, strapped on our crampons, and pulled out our ice axes. From this point on we would be traveling on snow. We gained the 2,200 feet to the top of Bonney Pass in two hours, next dropping down to 11,580 ft. to the Dinwoody Glacier with its absurdly deep moot by 9 am.  From the Dinwoody Glacier over to Gooseneck Glacier requires locating a thin band of snow that leads to Gooseneck Ridge, this strip of snow would have been very hard to find without Ben’s knowledge of the route. Ben was the only member of our group who had climbed the peak before and his familiarity was appreciated. 
Within an hour and a half from the Dinwoody Glacier we reached what we hoped wasn’t going to be a major obstacle namely the notorious bergschrund.   We had taken a bit of a calculated risk when we elected to leave behind pickets, harnesses, and ropes trusting that we wouldn’t need them to get over the bergschrund. Fortunately, with care the “schrund” was passable without gear and the 40 degree (or more) slope above the "schrund" proved to be the crux of the climb. By 10:45 am our full group of seven had safely navigated the crux, and within another 15 minutes we reached the point where the Gooseneck Ridge turns from West to North and overlooks what I believe is known as Glacier Pass.  From there we soon reached the Gooseneck pinnacle, and before noon all seven of us stood upon the highest spot in Wyoming with blue skies all around and breath taking views in all directions.
Leah had brought along a cloth banner on which she had written Gannett and below that 13,804’ - we took turns posing for pictures while holding it.  We relaxed on the top soaking in the sun and the views, found and signed the summit registry, and within an hour began the return trip to basecamp climbing over the seemingly bottomless “schrund” by 1:30 pm.  We retrace our steps to the top of Bonney Pass arriving by 4:30 pm.
I was the first of our group to start down the 2000 plus vertical feet of Bonney Pass, and after some time a commotion caused me to pause and look back up, only to see Ben uncontrollably sliding on his belly, feet first, rapidly gaining speed as he plummeted toward me.  I could see he had lost his ice axe, and so I yelled at him to spread out his arms and legs, hoping that would slow him enough so he could regain control. It was a frightening scene to witness, but mercifully he heard my instructions, followed them, and recovered control.  He suffered only scrapes, along with some bumps and bruises, being blessed to have not snagged a crampon and to have stopped when he did.  He told me that as he started down he stopped to get something out of his pack and in doing so released the leash of his axe from the waist band strap, only to next slip with his axe left above stuck in the snow.  On a steep slope like we were descending self-arresting without an axe was an unlikely affair which he pulled off.  He would have been badly hurt, and we all would have been in serious trouble otherwise.  I for one thanked my Heavenly Father for his protection.
It was a twelve hour day by the time we all securely returned to basecamp, and we were exhausted having covered 14 miles and climbed just shy of 7000 vertical feet.  Water, food, and rest – in that order – was all we wanted and needed that evening.
Our fourth day in the mountains was essentially a reverse of days two and one.  We began the 16 mile return hike at 8:00 am, passed Little Seneca Lake inside an hour and a half, encountered the bloated dead horse 20 minutes before noon, and reached the parking lot at Elkhart Park by 4:30 pm.  I finished the last of my food on the return trip meaning I had packed no extra.  Nevertheless, I was in favor of either spending another night at the campground, or making the journey home. However, the consensus of the majority of the group was to drive to Pinedale, get some motel rooms, and dine at a restaurant.  Come to find out Ben had a motel room already reserved!  We returned home August 21, 2009.
Written July 25, 2020
