October 24, 2009 Lucy Ordaz and I climbed Mount Timpanogos.  We began the hike at Aspen Groove a few minutes before 8:00 am on a cloudy morning with the sun attempting to shine through.  As we worked our way up the Primrose cirque the wind picked up and any hints of sun where soon gone.  We crossed paths with four other groups who were all heading down, and who all mentioned how strong the winds were higher up.  As we top the Primrose cirque entering into the field like areas below Emerald Lake the wind was indeed quite strong and gusting.  Nonetheless we donned our gators and sunglasses and continued on through the blowing snow arriving at the Emerald Lake shelter at around 11:00 am.  At the shelter we moved into the SW corner to get out of the wind, ate a quick lunch and were soon back out into the elements and making our way to the 11,080 ft saddle.  The snow was drifted and deep in this section making the going tough and slow but within an hour we reached the saddle, and crossed over to the west aspect of the mountain which we found covered in rhime. Visibility was limited to less than 30 feet as we climbed the remaining 670 vertical feet arriving at 11,749 ft at 1:00 pm.  Not wanting to get cold we quickly snapped a few pictures, signed the summit log, and started back down.  Once we returned to the saddle, where we were sheltered from the wind, we paused for a quick snack.  About an hour and a half after leaving the peak we arrived back at the Emerald Lake shelter where we encountered a couple of BYU students asking us if they should continue on to the peak.  I strongly advised against it as it was now snowing steadily, the wind was still strong, thunder was pounding, and one of the students was dressed in jeans and running shoes.  After a few more questions, they decided they would go down and asked us if they could follow us as they had gotten lost on the way up.  I said sure, and we soon started down in the strong wind with are ascent tracks mostly blown away.  The BYU boys followed us to the point where we left the snow, at which point they paused and we waved good-bye.  It had obviously been raining lower down, we noticed, as we made our way down to the car arriving at 5:30 pm elated by our accomplishment.

1.	Lucy part way up the Primrose cirque with Deer Creek reservoir visible in the background at about 10:00 am October 24, 2009.
2.	Another shot of Lucy hiking up the Primrose cirque.
3.	The moraine field at Emerald Lake.
4.	Lucy having some lunch at the Emerald Lake shelter, at around 11:00 am.
5.	Lucy with the Emerald Lake shelter behind at 11:15 am.
6.	Lucy out of the wind a few feet below the 11,080 ft Timp saddle at noon.
7.	The rhime covered triangulation station on the 11,749 feet summit at 1:00 pm, October 24, 2009.
8.	Walter doing a summit victory pose.
9.	Lucy doing a summit victory pose.
10.	Lucy looking cold, with frost covered hair inside the triangulation station.
11.	Walter acting cool inside the rhime covered triangulation station.
12.	Lucy and Walter happy about their accomplishment.
13.	Lucy poses for one last summit picture.
14.	Walter poses for one more summit picture at 1:10 pm.
15.	Lucy on the descent between the saddle and Emerald Lake at 2:15 pm.
16.	Lucy plodding along between the saddle and Emerald Lake.
17.	Walter between the saddle and Emerald Lake.
18.	Lucy and the BYU boys push along in the driving wind and falling snow at 3:15 pm.
19.	Lucy loving the elements and the adventure!
