Humphreys Peak - AZ

We were supposed to leave at 9:00 am but it was almost 10:30 by the time we headed south on I-15 from Orem, Wednesday Nov 17, 2010.  We stopped for dinner at Denny’s in Page AZ and by 9pm we were at Arizona Snowbowl ski area, a 14 mile drive up US-180 from Flagstaff, where we camped in the parking lot at over 9,300 feet on a cold night, with no one else around.  I had told Ana to bring a warm sleeping bag and an extra blanket or two, but whatever she had wasn’t warm enough and I ended up giving her my down bag.  Ana had never done anything like this, and that probably added to her sleeplessness.
Next morning we were up at 5 am, and on the trail at 6:30 am with the sun somewhat up. Our destination being the highest peak on San Francisco Mountain, named Humphreys Peak - the highest natural point in the U.S. state of Arizona.  Yet another mountain peak with a thoughtless name, paying tribute to an Army officer.  Perhaps an officer is a bit better then honoring a politician - another common heedless way to name a peak.  San Francisco Mountain, also known as San Francisco Peaks or simply The Peaks, is a group of dormant volcanic peaks along a Massif located in the Coconino National Forest.

The Humphreys’ Peak trail wasn’t obvious so we ended up hiking under one of the ski lifts eventually crossing the trail a few hundred yards beyond the end of the lift.  Following the trail we were guided into a conifer and aspen forest, on the west side of the mountain, and up a set of long switchbacks. Near tree line, just below the saddle between Humphreys and Agassiz Peaks, the forest becomes bristlecone pines bent and twisted by wind and frost. A short push up to the saddle offers hikers views of the Inner Basin of the Massif that forms the San Francisco Peaks.  Up to this point we had cover roughly three miles, with one and three quarter’s miles remaining.  Here, above tree line, the terrain appears volcanic as the route steepens passing three false summits before reaching the highpoint.
We made it to the roof of AZ in 3.5 hours, with Ana doing very well. A dusting of snow, here and there, coated the mountain but volcanic rocks showed through it everywhere.  This was my 11th US state highpoint, and my 179th mountain climb. The 360 degree views are expansive seeming to never end almost as though one is looking into space. Out there somewhere was the Grand Canyon, and a lot of seemingly empty land some of which surely is the Painted Desert – it was remarkable. We had the summit to ourselves making the views that much easier to enjoy.   After 45 minutes on top of Arizona we began the back track down.
I wanted to summit Mt. Agassiz on the way down but on the ascent from the saddle we noticed a sign saying it was closed.  I have no idea why it was closed but the sign seemed serious threatening a $500 fine.  I had just begun a seven month un-jobbing phase, and didn’t like the idea of spending $500 to reach another peak.  
Around 3pm we returned to the car, having covered 9.5 miles and over 3300 vertical feet.
On the drive down from the ski resort we stopped before Flagstaff and ate dinner on the side of the road, then headed to the Kaibab forest near Jacobs Lake where we found a free spot to camp for the night.

Friday we drove to Escalante Utah and had lunch at Subway.  Following lunch we started down the dirt/gravel Hole-In-The-Rock road en route to Coyote Gulch.  Only 10 miles in and the front left tire region started rattling, and the brakes started to act up.  So we had to turn around and return to Escalante using low gears to slow the car when needed.  We waited for a couple hours for the one and only mechanic in town to look at the car.  He discovered one of the two caliper bolts were missing…
