Written 7/27/2020
Mount Rainier, WA, 14,411 ft. – July 17, 2010, HP #10:  Breaking tradition with our late start
Immediately following our successful climb of Mt. Hood in extremely windy conditions, Jordan and I drove the 230 miles from Timberline Ski Area to Seattle Washington.  A few rest days were just what was needed before we headed to the Paradise area of Mount Rainier National Park to meet a group with who we had plans to climb the tallest mountain in Washington State. Jordan had booked us a few nights at his time share downtown.  Our plan was to take it easy July 13, and do some site seeing around Seattle July 14, and then meet up with our posse the morning of July 15 spending the next three days on Mt. Rainier. 
Well Jordan got a call (I hadn’t yet given into social pressure and didn’t own a mobile phone at this point in my life) asking us if we could do Rainer as a quicker trip and meet part of our group July 16 instead. We were told there had been a mix-up with the permits but more likely our group size exceeded regulations and had to be split into two, and staggered on start dates.  Considering us both strong climbers, we were asked to sacrifice a more leisure itinerary. An extra day in Seattle was fine, even if we had nothing planned to do, and the morning of July 16 came soon enough.  
 At the end of 2009 I had starting looking for a group, or even just a partner, to climb Rainier with in 2010. One of the guys I ski toured with told me about a climbing club located in Provo Utah who were planning to tackle it the summer of 2010.  Seemed like a perfect solution to my partner finding challenge, and I ended up joining.  The club held monthly activities involving either ice climbing, rock climbing, or mountain climbing. To qualify for the Rainer trip club members were required to participate in several other local mountain climbs in preparation. Through the club is how I meet Jordan.
It’s over 100 miles to Paradise from Seattle, and the morning of July 16, 2010 we allowed ourselves amble time to get there by 10:00 am to meet up with five of our friends.  En route along the Paradise Rd, which parallels the Nisqually River, the ultra-prominence of Mount Rainier was very noticeable.  In fact Mount Rainier is ranked the most topographically prominent mountain in the contiguous United States.
Legend has it that the name “Paradise” comes from the glorious views of the wildflower meadows common to the area.  The site is popular with tourists as it is home to the National Park’s main visitor center with its gift shop and cafeteria.   A concessioner-operated hotel, the historic Paradise Inn, is also located there.  We didn’t have time for any of the tourist attractions, nor were we interested in them, as we needed to make our final preparation before beginning our hike.
Close to noon, under the weight of 40 pound packs, the seven of us began the 4.25 miles and 4660 vertical feet hike to Camp Muir, which was done almost entirely on a snowfield. Mount Rainier, also known as Tahoma or Tacoma, is a large active volcano, covered by twenty-six glaciers making it the most heavily glaciated peak in the lower 48  US states.  The glaciers, which we would be traveling on past Camp Muir, necessitate extra climbing equipment such as pickets, ice screws, ropes, slings, carabiners, harnesses, crampons, and ice axes.  Additionally we carried winter clothing, helmets (to protect us from rock fall), sleep bags, and tents along with three days’ worth of food.   
The name Rainier was given to the mountain way back in 1792 in honor of Admiral Peter Rainier.   As mentioned its other names include Tacoma (Tahoma) which may mean “mother of waters” or simply “snow-covered mountain”.  Somewhat fittingly, and certainly by coincidence, the name Rainer means “Deciding Warrior” – that is according to urbandictionary.com.  Which also states “the name Rainier creates the urge to be reliable and responsible”, and “it causes the inability to realize your goals and ambitions”.  Many reliable and responsible climber might resonate with this meaning if denied the peak as historically only about half who set out to stand on top of Rainier succeed with 10,000 or more attempting it each year.
 Chatting with folks as they descended we learned most of them had missed their summit bid due to strong winds over the last few days.  Views to the south revealed Oregon’s Mt Hood were Jordan and I had been 4 days earlier in very strong winds, and we were both hoping to not have a repeat of such weather on our Rainier summit day.   
Arriving at Camp Muir at 4:30pm we located the rest of the climbing club members, 12-others, who seemed glad to see us, and who got a good laugh out of the horse shoe shaped mustache I was sporting.  They had done the traditional thing, and spend the day at a nearby glacier taking photos in crevasses and practicing crevasse rescue.  Jordan and I had done our own practice back home on the snowfield at Mount Timpanogos but I am sure we missed out on some awesome photographs.
Camp Muir was crowded, as I suppose it often is during this time of the year so we had to do some work to create a suitable spot for the tent. Next I spent more than a couple hours melting snow for water for dinner and for the early morning excursion we soon would be taking. In my trip notes I wrote “setting up camp, melting snow for water, and cooking dinner was a four hour ordeal”.   With food in our bellies, and the water ready for the morning, we laid down in the tent, and I pretended to sleep having too much on my mind to actually sleep.  The plan was to continue our ascent at 3:00am.  Jordan and I would be roping up with the Whitehall brothers Albert and Tyson.  I warned the Whitehall’s that an hour and a half would be needed to prepare in the morning, but I was the only one up 1:30am, and the only one ready at 3:00am.  By 3:40 am everyone on our rope was ready to go and we began the ascent of the remaining 4.75 miles and 4,330 vertical feet to the top of Washington.  Most groups (including 12 of our friends) start as early as midnight (MDT) so were breaking tradition with our late start.
We followed the Disappointment Cleaver route - the most commonly used route.  The guiding services seem to dominate this route, and have a sort of controlling attitude toward it.  Add to that the aforementioned crowded conditions and the tourist nature of the Paradise area, and together these factors tend to lessen the otherwise precarious and adventurous nature of climbing Mount Rainier. 
From Camp Muir the route traverses the Cowlitz Glacier to Cathedral Gap (10,640 ft.) and then continues left along scree, ice and snow to Ingram flats (11,100 ft.) where we encountered our first crevasse.  From Ingram Flats we climbed the Disappointment Cleaver (12,250 ft.).  The term cleaver refers to a rock ridge which divides, or cleaves, a glacier into parts or from another glacier. In this case the cleaver seems to separate the Ingraham glacier from the Emmons glacier.  Perhaps, the strain of reaching the Cleaver and still have a long ways to go before reaching the highest point resulted in the name “Disappointment Cleaver”, but your guess is as good as mine.  As well, I have heard that climbers are often turned back here due to threatening weather higher up.
As we ascended the Cleaver we watched the sunrise.  By 6:30 am (MDT) we reached the top of the Cleaver, where we paused to remove our headlamps, and wait for another rope team from our crew.  With the sun out we had a nice view of Mount Adams. The weather was clear and calm, and the only clouds we saw were in the distance and below us.
Next we ascended the Ingraham’s Glacier to the Emmon’s Glacier which took us to the 14,180 ft. crater rim by 9:15 am.  En route a lot of our friends had passed us on their descent.  
Rainier’s crater is closed to a quarter of a mile in diameter, that is huge, but walking across it seemed even longer.  In fact, the summit is topped by two volcanic craters, with the larger east crater (the one we now stood on) overlapping the west crater. At 9:40 am our rope team of four reached Columbia Crest, the true summit, at 14,410 ft.   The summit plateau of Mount Rainier actually holds three named points, Columbia Crest is the tallest, second is Point Success at 14,158 ft. and the third is Liberty Cap at 14,112 ft.  One hundred feet beneath the ice of the crater lies the 16 foot deep Lake Muriel the highest crater lake in North America – which we walked over without even knowing it was below us.
I didn’t see or smell any of the fumaroles that surely exist on this volcano.  Nor did I concern myself that I was standing on what some consider one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world. Records date the most recent volcanic eruption back to the first half of the 1800, but apparently there is a strong probability of eruption in the near future.  As a point of reference I felt the effects of the 1980 Mount St. Helens eruption as our family car and yard, in Alberta, was covered in ash.
Since we had broken tradition with our late start, and with the other late starters of our group behind us, we had the top of Washington to ourselves.  The temperature was below freezing with blue skies, and a moderate wind was blowing, and we were covered in generously insulated parkas. We spent just ten minutes on the peak, taking photographs, then moved lower, out of the breeze, to have a snack.  After 45 minutes of relaxation we began the descent.  Already behind the conventional schedule we probably lingered at the top a bit longer then we should have, but it’s not every day one finds himself at such an awesome place. No harm was encountered in spite our late start – no avalanches, no falling through a snow-bridge into a crevasse, and no falling rocks all things the early start is intended to reduce the chances of.
The return to camp Muir took four hours.  When we reached the vicinity of the Disappointment Cleaver at 1:01 pm I removed my aluminum crampons to protect them (which I hadn’t done on the way up), and the time delay seemed to disagree with the Whitehall brothers.  Jordan and I were actually on our own rope, as were the Whitehall’s, so they just untied their rope from ours and sped off.  Passing the scree I reinstated my crampons, and we continued backtracking arriving at camp Muir at 2:27pm after 11 hours on the high mountain.  Most of the club members had already packed up and started down. My desire was to relax, and spend the night at camp Muir as our permit allowed, but Jordan was very set on returning to the car, and finding a motel.  It was his car and he was driving so I essentially had to go along with his desire.  We melted snow for water, packed up our gear and started down to Paradise at 5 pm arriving in about 2.5 hours. I think we were too tired to fully appreciate our accomplishment, but it was another big one indeed.




July 16 & 17, I climbed Washington’s Mt. Rainier with the Utah Climbing Club.  July 16 nine climbers meet at Paradise and hiked the 4.25 miles and 4660 vertical feet to Camp Muir, where I spend four hours melting water, setting up camp, and eating.  Next morning I got up at 1:30 am and was ready to climb the remaining 4.75 miles and 4330 vertical feet by 3:00 am.  Josh Jones and I roped up with the White brothers Tyler and Aaron.  By 3:40 am everyone on our rope was ready to go and we began the ascent.  We followed the Disappointment Cleaver route.  From Camp Muir we traversed the Cowlitz Glacier to Cathedral Gap (10,640 ft) and then continued left along scree, ice and snow to Ingram flats (11,100 ft ) where we encountered our first crevasse.  From Ingram Flats we climbed the Disappointment Cleaver (12,250 ft).  As we ascended the Cleaver we watched the sunrise.  By 6:30 am MST we reached the top of the Cleaver, where we paused to remove our headlamps, and wait for the other five members of our group.  Next we ascended the Ingraham’s  Glacier to the Emmon’s  Glacier which took us to the 14,180 ft crater rim arriving at 9:15 am.  From the rim we walked across the crater to Columbia Crest, the true summit, at 14,410 ft.  We completed the ascent in just under six hours.  It was windy at the high point, so we spent only 10 minutes on the peak and moved lower to pause for a snack.  After 45 minutes of rest we began the descent, arriving back at Camp Muir in  4 hours at 2:30 pm.  At Camp Muir Josh and I melted snow for water, packed up our gear and started down to Paradise at 5 pm arriving in about 2.5 hours.

1.	Mt Rainier as seen from Route 706 a few miles before Paradise.
2.	At 11:51 am (MST) we left Paradise (visitor center) and began the 4.25 mile hike up to Camp Muir.
3.	John Judd and Josh Jones with Nisqually Glacier on Mt Rainier behind them.
4.	At view to the south reveals Oregon’s Mt Hood were Josh and I had been 4 days earlier.
5.	Mt Adams was visible to the south most of the climb.
6.	Walter on the Muir snowfield.
7.	We had clear weather for most of the trip with the expectation of some low cloud cover.
8.	Mt Adams.
9.	Aaron, Colin, Josh, Darren, and John at 2:45 pm.
10.	Nisqually Glacier
11.	We reached Camp Muir at 4:33 pm after just under 4.75 hours of hiking.
12.	 At Camp Muir we joined the 12 other members of the UCC who had arrived at Camp Muir the day before.
13.	 Looking easterly from Camp Muir on the Cowlitz Glacier at Cathedral Gap on the left and Little Tahoma on the right.
14.	 Setting up camp, melting snow for water, and cooking dinner was a four hour ordeal.  
15.	Looking to the west at Camp Muir at 8:41 pm.
16.	We started our summit push at 3:39 am, and by 5:36 am as we climbed the Disappointment Cleaver the sun began to rise.
17.	By 6:16 am (MST) the sun was on the horizon.
18.	Aaron and Tyler, near the top of the Cleaver, high above the clouds with the Ingram Glacier and Little Tahoma below them.
19.	Mount Adams on the right as seen at 6:35 am from the top of the Cleaver at 12,250 ft.
20.	Tyler and Aaron at the top of the Cleaver.
21.	Looking up the Emmons Glacier (part of this might also be the Ingraham Glacier).
22.	Mt Adams above the sea of clouds to the South.
23.	Aaron, Walter, and Tyler at the top of the Cleaver at 6:38 am (MST).
24.	A zoomed looked at the crevasse riddled Glacier (might be Emmons Glacier or maybe Ingraham Glacier).
25.	Another zoomed looked at the crevasse riddled Glacier.
26.	 Josh, Aaron, and Tyler now on (or approaching) the Emmons Glacier at 7:00 am.
27.	Our rope, with a few other late starters behind us.  Most groups (including 12 members of the UCC) start as early as midnight (MST) where as we started at 3:39 am.
28.	 Our rope with Gibraltar rock behind.
29.	Josh at the 14,180 ft crater rim arriving at 9:15 am.
30.	 9:38 am (MST) our rope of Tyler, Josh, Walter, and Aaron, pose for the summit photo having no where higher to go!!
31.	Getting higher!
32.	Looking east across the crater.
33.	The view to the south behind Walter.
34.	Josh
35.	Descending at 11:06 am on the Emmons Glacier.
36.	The rope team.
37.	Emmons Glacier on the left and Ingram Glacier on the right, split 11,138 ft Little Tahoma.
38.	Looking at the blue ice inside a small crevasse.
39.	Walter removes his crampons on the scree section of Disappointment Cleaver at 1:01 pm.  11,138 foot Little Tahoma with Emmons Glacier on the left and Ingram Glacier on the right.
40.	 More crevasses.
41.	 The snow was beautiful.
42.	Walter at Ingraham flats at 1:46 pm
43.	Josh waders into Camp Muir at 2:27 pm after 11 hours on the high mountain.
