May 5, 2011 - I met Matt J at 1:45 am in Orem and we drove up to Draper and 
met Dustin E at the park next to the LDS Church Peter attends on Wasatch Blvd.  
We left my car there and drove up to the Upper Bells Canyon parking lot where 
we met Dustins friends Ashley and Robert.  Our plan was to do a loop hike 
up Bells, over Lone Peak via its NE Coulior, and down Willow Hollow -- approximately 
12 miles and over 6,000 vertical feet.  As the five of us got ready, Jake Moon
soon arrived, and just as we were ready to depart at 3:00 am David arrived.

The seven of us set at out up bells around 3:15 am, within an hour reaching the snow, 
which was frozen solid neglecting the need of the snowshoes we carried.  About a 
mile below the apron of the NE Coulior the snow soften up and we donned our snowshoes.
It took us just over four hours to reach the base of the apron where we would climb 
up the steep (50 plus degrees) 1400 vertical foot long NE coulior.  In the 
"Chuting Gallery" the NE coulior is rated S5 meaning you would be lucky to survive 
a fall.

At the bottom of the apron the snow was sugary, and consisted of three primary layers.
I got the first lay (16 inches) to sheer with three solid open palm slaps - so it 
wasn't "green" stability more like borderline "orange".  Nonetheless we donned our
crampons and up we went.  There seemed to be a direct correlation between altitude and
temperature and the last 200 feet the snow was "scarily" water saturned and unbonded 
on the top 12 inches.  Fortunately the snow held and we all reached the summit ridge 
safely have ascended the coulior in under 2 hours (arrivng on the ridge about 9:45 am).

I took the lead over the deathly scary knife edged summit ridge where a fall, or 
breaking cornice would certainly mean death.  The ridge was filled in but the snow
wasn't always solid.  At the last two "boulders" of the peak I met Dustin and Ashley
who had branched off in the coulior on a line more directly to the peak.  Dustin braved
the hop to the highest point while  and I waited on the slightly lower point.  
As Jake arrived Dustin and I switched spots. Ashley, Jake, and Matt decide the highest 
boulder wasn't worth the risk.  Robert, who had followed Dustin up, turned north at 
the base of the lower boulder and crossed the knife edge to the safety of the ridge
where David had decided to remain.
