November 23, 2012 Ana and I drove down to the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument area to check out Peek-A-Boo, and Spooky Slot Canyons as well as Coyote Gulch.  We avoided the Freeway and even took a dirt road (17) through Escalante Canyon which had patches of ice on it, and wonderful views.  

We left Provo at 10:00 am and got to the Dry Fork Overlook (trailhead) by 3:30 pm.  We changed into our boots, grabbed our headlamps, and dropped into Dry Fork Gulch, which involved maybe a mile of hiking and a 100 or so feet of descent.  We were racing against the setting sun, so once in the bottom of the gulch we entered the first canyon we came to thinking it was Peek-A-Boo. In actuality it was Dry Fork Canyon at the head of the Dry Fork of Coyote Gulch (aka Dry Fork Narrows of Coyote Gulch).  It is a beautiful canyon with very high walls and consistent narrows for nearly one mile, but no more narrow than say a city sidewalk.  Since we thought it was Peek-A-Boo once we got to the end, we wandered around looking for Spooky, and of course didn’t find it, and so we ended up back tracking through the narrows of Dry Fork canyon making it out of the slot before it was fully dark but getting caught in the dark before getting back up to the trailhead.

Back at the trailhead, around 6pm, we were the only car left.  We looked in the trail registry and found the overnight permit book, so we decided to stay there away from the actual trailhead.  With the sun down, up on a plateau as we were, it was downright cold out.  Fortunately we both had 0 degree sleeping bags.  A quick dinner of instant noodles, and off to bed.

We got up with the sun to a very clear and cold morning likely at or below the freezing point.  Boiled some water, and made some breakfast, and before 9:00 am, bundled up like it was January in Canada, we set off to find Spooky.  By this time I was unsure if we had done Peek-A-Boo, or if the information I had about it was wrong.  Back in Dry Canyon we discovered a slot canyon, and when we found the entrance it fit the description of Peek-A-Boo, with its double arches.  Ana had some trouble climbing out of the pothole under the double arches and accused me of making here do things she didn’t want to, other than that it was a fun albeit short (mile or less) canyon to explore.  

At the exit of the canyon our directions told us to go right, but after some wandering around we realized that wasn’t correct, that we in fact need to turn almost 180 degrees and then veer left walking for about 10-15 minutes to reach the top of Spooky Slot Canyon.  Spooky was much deeper and consistently narrower than Peek-A-Boo, and at points lived up to its name.  There were even a couple of tricky spots that took a little figuring out on how to get through them, one in particular where we had to climb down through some boulders (choke stones) and then drop down 10 feet or more.  Most of the way we had to hold our back packs over our heads or in front of us to in order to squeeze through the slot.  

We both really enjoyed Spooky, and it was only 11 am by the time we exited so we decided to wander further down Dry Canyon in search of Brimstone slot canyon.  En route we passed some large sand dunes one of which I climbed on our return hike.  Brimstone narrows down to the point where you have to turn around, and it was pretty short, but it was very deep.

It must have been around 1:30 pm when we got back to the car.  We made sandwiches for lunch, and then headed off in search of the Jacob Hamblin Arch exit of Coyote Gulch, which meant more driving down the washboard hole-in-the-rock road and the forty-mile ridge road.  When we reached the water tank (really a circular water trough) we packed some water and head lamps and set out in a straight line course of 357 degrees (almost due magnetic north) covering roughly 2.5 miles to the rim of coyote gulch above Jacob Hamblin Arch. The views were impressive, and I was curious on how tough the exit from the gulch would be so I descended part way in, but just like the day before we are racing against the setting sun so I didn’t have time enough to actually complete the descent.  

Once I joined Ana back on the rim, I reset the compass for the return bearing of 177 magnetic degrees, and we head back as the light of day faded.  We made it approximately halfway when darkness engulfed us.  I really enjoyed navigating the remainder in the dark as it was my first time following a bearing in the dark.  We made it back, drove down the hill and continued up the Forty mile ridge road in search of an adequate camping spot.  At camp we had a quick instant soup dinner, after setting up the tent, and following that went to bed.  It was cold, but warmer than the night before.

Next morning, November 25, we drove to the Forty Mile Ridge Trailhead, and then walked east across red sand and slick rock toward the Escalante River, in search of the 18 inch wide Crack-In-The-Wall entrance point into Escalante Canyon.  It took about 40 minutes to reach the rim and the Crack-In-The-Wall.  The crack is essentially two flakes that have broken off the rim face and combined are about 50 long and only 18 inches wide (at the narrowest spot).  You descend between the rim wall and the flakes.  Between the two flakes we found a 550 cord and lowered our packs so as to avoid squeezing through the 18 inches wide section with them.  Once through the Crack-In-The-Wall it’s about a mile walk, down 1000 vertical feet to Coyote Gulch dropping you about 0.5 miles west of the Escalante river. En route we enjoyed the views of the stunning Steven’s Arch.

Once in Coyote Gulch we attempted to stroll east to the Escalante River, but Ana found the route worrisome.  So instead we walked west in Coyote Gulch until we came to an awkward stream crossing where we decided instead of crossing to return to a sunny area and eat our lunch. Following lunch we hiked out.  We saw another couple on the rim on our walk in, but never saw them or anyone else again.

By 2pm we were back to the trailhead, and we decided to drive down to the hole-in-the-rock, thinking it was about 9 miles down the hole-in-the-rock road.  However, as soon as we past the Dance Hall Rock there was a sign saying hole-in-the-rock was 21 miles down the road… too far for us (looking it up Nov 30 on the nsp.gov site, says it is 18.9 miles—still too far, see http://www.nps.gov/glca/planyourvisit/driving-the-hole-in-the-rock-road.htm ).  We took a few photographs at Dance Hall Rock and then drove the 36 miles down the wash-board the hole-in-the-rock road back to highway 12 and from there a few miles to the town of Escalante.

From the town of Escalante we drove 50 miles west to Bryce Canyon, where we got a room at the Bryce Canyon Grand Hotel.  After showering and changing clothes we wandered over to the Ruby inn for some food but I had an upset stomach, so my dinner was just a bowl of soup.  We were back to the room in time to catch the last 10 minutes of The Amazing Race.  

After breakfast the next morning, November 26, we paid the $25 and drove into Bryce Canyon. We first stopped near Sunrise point. Next we visited Sunset Point, Inspiration Point, and Bryce Point.  By 10:00 am the weather was warming up some, so we took a hike into the canyon via the peekaboo loop trail. After the hike we drove to the south end to checkout Natural Bridge, following which we stopped a picnic area and made sandwiches for lunch, then drove back to Orem arriving by 6pm.  Fun trip and interesting area.
1.	November 23, 2012 Ana and I went exploring in the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument area.  We visited Peekaboo & Spooky Slot Canyon (marked B on the image), as well as Coyote Gulch (marked A on the image) and Bryce Canyon (marked G on the image).
2.	We drove down highway 22, and took a dirt road shortcut (road 17) through Escalante Canyon across to the town of Escalante.  It had snow and ice and nice views.
3.	November 23, got to the Peek-A-Boo/Spooky trailhead (aka Dry Fork trailhead) around 3:30 pm, and took a stroll down into November 23, got to the Peek-A-Boo/Spooky trailhead (aka Dry Fork trailhead) around 3:30 pm, and took a stroll down into Dry Fork Slot Canyon at the head of the Dry Fork of Coyote Gulch (This slot might also be known as Dry Fork Narrows of Coyote Gulch).
4.	November 24, first thing in the morning, we found Peek-A-Boo, with its double arches at the entrance from Dry Fork.
5.	The double arches
6.	Peek-A-Boo has a few narrow spots like this one.
7.	We went up Peek-A-Boo then down Spooky.  This is one of the wide spot at the top of Spooky.  Each slot is maybe a mile long.
8.	The photos don't show it well, but after this section the slot canyon got very narrow.
9.	The photos don't show it well, but after this section the slot canyon got very narrow.
10.	Ana about to enter a narrow section
11.	After Peek-A-Boo and Spooky we walked a few more miles down Dry Fork until we found Brimstone Canyon which becomes too narrow to pass through, and one is forced to turn around.
12.	Following lunch we drove further down the Hole-In-The-Rock road into Glen Canyon National Recreation Area (the border between Glen Canyon NRA, and Grand stair-case isn't obvious on the maps, but I think we entered Glen Canyon NRA) where we hiked to Jacob Hamblin Arch of Coyote Gulch.
13.	Jacob Hamblin Arch
14.	Jacob Hamblin Arch
15.	I did a section of the descent into Coyote Gulch and took this pic of Ana up on the rim.
16.	November 25, we started at the Forty mile Ridge Trailhead and hiked to the Crack-in-the-Wall entrance to lower Coyote Gulch.
17.	Within 40 minutes we came to the rim of the Escalante River, where we would find the 18 inch wide crack in the wall that would give us access to the canyon.
18.	Here Ana is walking through the Crack-in-the-Wall.
19.	Crack-in-the-Wall
20.	The walk down into lower Coyote Gulch loses about 1000 feet of elevation and goes down on the left side of the big rock wall behind Walter in this photo.
21.	Soon Stevens Arch came into view.
22.	We made it down to the creek in Coyote Gulch, had lunch and looked around and here is Ana on the walk out.
23.	We made it down the creek in Coyote Gulch, had lunch and looked around and here is Walter on the walk out.
24.	This rock looks like it had a bolted anchor belay station about half way up.
25.	Exiting Crack-in-the-Wall
26.	Back on the rim we wander over to this view of the Escalante River.
27.	Ana wandering back to the car over the slick rock and sand.
28.	Mile 36.4 down hole-in-the rock road is Dance Hall Rock. This is a large, solid sandstone amphitheater. The pioneers set up a base camp near here and held dances in the natural theater, accompanied by violins, to keep the morale up.
29.	2012-11-26 we checked out Bryce Canyon.
30.	We first stopped near Sunrise point.
31.	We visited Sunrise Point, Sunset Point, Inspiration Point, and Bryce Point.
32.	We visited Sunrise Point, Sunset Point, Inspiration Point, and Bryce Point.
33.	We hiked into the canyon via the peekaboo loop trail.
34.	Peekaboo Loop
35.	Peekaboo Loop
36.	Peekaboo Loop
37.	Peekaboo Loop
38.	After the hike we drove to the south end to check out this Natural Bridge.
