July 28 – 2012 , I met up with Jackson Marvel at 1600 N Park N Ride in Orem at 7:30 am.  Sam Cannon slept in, and didn’t show up at my house that morning so we had to leave without him.  We drove up to Snowbasin ski resort to meet up with Scott Cooney and Jessica Goelz.  We made it on time, at 9:00 am, but Scott and Jessica were also late.  Sam, had woken up and informed Jacob Moon, so they were on the way.  By 10:10 am Jackson and I decided to start the 2000 vertical foot hike, from the 6,350 ft parking lot to the base of the vertical north east face of Mt. Ogden (9572 ft).  Jess and Scott decided to take the Gondola (Needles lift, to 8650 feet), so they had time to wait for Sam and Jake.  

The hike was hot, and on a dusty utility road.  We sweated a lot and drank too much of our precious water during the less than 1.5 hour hike.  We decided Scott/Jess where smart to pay the $15 to ride the Gondola!.  By 11:35 pm  Scott and Jess were off the Gondola and hiking down to meet us. 

We made it to the base of the first pitch around 12:20, and were climbing by 12:40 pm.  We had no beta on this climb other than to pick a feature and climb, and that most of the climbing was under 5.8. I didn’t even know how much vertical we would be climbing.  My after the climb calculations estimate the first pitch to start at approximately 8,400 feet, with the peak being at 9, 572 feet (so almost 1,200 feet of rock climbing).

Just as I was leading the first pitch Sam and Jake showed up, but they decided to by-pass the first pitch via a scramble up on the right-side of it.  We only exchanged a few words, with Sam saying his speakers were off so he didn’t hear his alarm, and Jake asking me if I had gotten my new rack.  I only spotted them again once, when they were on what would be for us the sixth pitch.

The first pitch was up an angled crack and was about 5.7.  I lead, and then belayed Jackson up by looping the climbing rope around a large boulder.  From there, Scott and Jess decided to go right following a wide crack (which made Scott wish he’d brought his number 5 cam), while we went to the left, with Jackson on lead, up a 5.7 wall and on to the East Ridge.  

I lead the third pitch, but it turned into a zig-zaggy rope drag deal below a wall with no place to put protection so I ended up back tracking to just three pieces of pro above Jackson, from where I belayed him up.  We should have combine p2 and p3, or p3 and p4.

Jackson took the sharp end of the rope for the next pitch which as a class 4 scramble to above a tree.  Pitch 5, I lead, cresting up over a pointy outcropping, and spotting Sam on the next pitch above.  When Jackson followed he had a tough time removing a hex.  Scott, from above, instructed us to follow a dihedral leading to where he was.  I guided us up a scramble to the crux, where Jackson took the lead as we simul-climbed and caught up to Jessica at a belay station.  We then went right, for our seventh pitch escorting us away from the ridge and back to the NE face.  

Pitch 8, on the NE face, with Jackson in lead, turned out to be the paramount pitch.  It must have been 5.8 and had limited places for gear placement the higher Jackson climbed.  He bravely ran out the rope and climbed like a professional.  I followed and was very impress with what he had led .From there we had to cross the ridge again, and wind back over to the face where I belayed Jackson up via a cordelette wrapped around a lone pine tree.

The 10th pitch reminded me very much of the West  Slabs of Mt. Olympus, and we decided to simul-climb it with Jackson as the frontrunner.  It steered us back on to the east ridge, where we caught up to Jessica who was belaying Scott climbing above.  We stayed on simul, but swung leads, passing Jessica and arriving at Scotts belaying station above, where we coiled our rope, and removed our cruel shoes and harnesses.

The last pitch was a class three scramble to the 9572 foot summit with its radio towers and heli-pad, where we arrived at 6:30 pm -- 12-pitches, and 6 hours of climbing approximately 1200 vertical feet.

We hung out on top for 30 minutes, taking pictures, checking out the radio towers, and sorting gear.  We hiked down to the 8650 foot top of the gondola where Jackson and I poached a ride down, and Scott and Jess legally rode down.  It was about 8:15 pm when we return to Earls Lodge at the parking lot.  We made it back to Orem at 10:00 pm.
