Sept 2, 2012 Ana and I climbed Crystal Peak in Utah's West Desert.  We started from the road at 6200 ft, and scrambled up a drainage west of the peak on the northside.  The drainage is the border between the tree covered section and the tuff section.

Crystal Peak is located in the southeastern part of Snake Valley in western Utah, and is different from all the surrounding mountains. Made of Tunnel Springs tuff, the white volcanic rock contrasts with the nearby forest-covered hills and peaks. 

It is not actually the volcano itself, but part of the tuff ring (material thrown out of an erupting volcano that collects in a ring around the base of the volcano). The volcano’s vent is thought to have been just east of where Crystal Peak sits. It’s fun to look for small crystals hidden in the holes.

Unlike the surrounding peaks, Crystal Peak is a white conelike peak that stands out like a sore thumb. From a distance the peak looks as though a lot of plant life is growing on its slopes. Closer inspection reveals that the dark spots are actually huecos, or pockets in the rock, making the hike up Crystal Peak both unusual and spectacular. Once on top of Crystal Peak, you can see out into Nevada and the high peaks of Great Basin National Park to the west. To the northeast you see the Wasatch Range, and due east the Tushar Mountains, the second highest range in Utah. The barren desert surroundings take on a unique beauty.

1.	Looking SE (mostly south) at 7108 ft tall Crystal Peak.
2.	Ana, about 40 minutes into our scramble up the drainage to the saddle between the tuff and the tree covered areas.
3.	It took one hour to reach the saddle. Looking west from the saddle at the huecos i the tuff.
4.	This survey marker was below the peak.
5.	On the peak. It only took 1.5 hours to climb the 902 vertical feet to the summit. I didn't find even one crystal!!!
6.	On the peak. It only took 1.5 hours to climb the 902 vertical feet to the summit. I didn't find even one crystal!!!
7.	Looking north from the peak I saw my car.
8.	Looking west, I think you can see Wheeler Peak in Great Basin National Park 40 miles away (as the crow flies).
9.	Back at the saddle.
10.	Ana on the descent.




