Saturday Feb 18, 2012  I was expecting Matt Long to drop by at 10:30 am.  We had talked about doing a two day pulk trip up the Alpine Loop from Aspen Grove and down to Cascade Springs (10+ miles).  I emailed him Friday morning as a reminder and he replied saying he was running late.  I wasn’t sure if he meant he’d be late tomorrow or if he was thinking we were going today, so I wrote back saying see you tomorrow at 10:30 am.  When he hadn’t arrived by 11:15 am, and I called a second time and emailed him saying I was leaving at 11:30 am, and the he could try to meet me at either Aspen Grove or Cascade Springs.  

It was 12:45 pm on my camera, which is 15 minutes slow, when I finally left the Aspen Grove parking lot.  I wasn’t that into going alone, but decided it to anyway.  It took me about 1.5 hours to cover the 3 miles to the Cascade Springs turn off.  The next 7 miles to Cascade Springs only took  an hour and 45 minutes, as most of it was downhill.  Arriving at the springs at 4pm, and realized I had a lot of time on my hands.

I changed out of my ski boots, discovering blistered heels, and I scouted out a potential camping spot at the Upper Springs.  By 5:30 pm, I had eaten dinner, and I decided I didn’t want to spend the night in that drab place.  I decided I’d try to return to highway 92 (seven miles), and camp there, but I wasn’t sure I had the energy, as I’d be sluggish all day (having had a cold all week).  None the less I decided I’d try to go at least till 9pm, and at least find a camp spot in some pine or quaky trees. 

 I was quite energetic for the first couple of return miles, and I was now pulling the sled with my skis on it, finding boots easier than skinning.  By 8:30 pm,  I was about done in, especially as I dashed into the trees to hind from three snowmobilers, but for some reason I just kept going and by 9:26 pm I reached highway 92.  I found the energy to pull the sled up to the road high point and then into the quaky trees at the South Fork Little Deer Trail Marker, and by 11:00 pm I had eaten a cup of soup and set up a camp.  Prior to setting up the tent, I was half tempted to return to my car and drive home, but when I started to snow  at 10 pm I decided to spend the night, and so I dug out a platform in the snow and set up the tent.  

The next morning, Feb 19, I exited the tent about 9 am to about 4 or 5 inches of fresh snow, and I was so glad I had spent the night.  I made breakfast, and had my gear packed up by 11:00 am.  Realizing it would be 20 or 21 miles round trip by the time I got back to my vehicle, and with blisters on my heels, and only snow for water, I decided to forfeit a trip down to Timpanokee and instead head out.  I made fresh tracks on the Alpine Loop, up until about the last mile where I came across some snowmobiles and  a couple of snowshoers.  By noon I was back at my snow covered car.  I loaded my gear, and made a “brew”, and ate a sandwich and headed out around 12:45 pm.  It was a enough and I enjoyed it.  I had experimented at camp with burying my food in the snow, and alas it did not freeze (bread, cheese, and boiled egg).  I also learned that my old two wall tent, froze up inside just as much as a single wall tent.
