June 28, 2012 Matt Jesperson, Thomas Gappmayer, Sam Cannon, Jacob Moon, Matt Long and I meet at the Jacob Ladders trailhead.  Around 7 pm, we started hiking, it took us 6 hours to reach the Lone Peak Cirque.  To the 11,253 ft peak the distance is 6.3 miles and climbs 5, 650 feet.  To the base of the cirque, where we camped is approximately a 5,000 vertical foot hike.

Next morning we all left camp at about 10:45 am, and we scrambled up to the base of the summit wall.  There are five defined climbing routes to the peak, with our target being the so-called “Open Book” route.  By 11:30 am we had all reached the bottom of the first pitch, and soon after the first team consisting of Matt and Thomas were climbing.

The climb consists of 4 roped pitches and ascends about 600 feet all on classic alpine granite.  Pitch 1 is rated 5.6 and the other three pitches all share the 5.7 rating.  I found the climbing to be a “tough” 5.7.

Once Matt and Thomas reached the belay at the top of pitch 1, Jake and Sam followed on their own rope.  We didn’t see Matt and Thomas again until the summit.  

The last few moves of pitch 1 are difficult and can take some time.  I was set to lead this pitch and grew tired of waiting so I tried a line parallel to the dihedral the other teams had used.  However I reached a point just below where the standard line finishes a 10 feet transition to the right, and the climbing became too difficult for me. I ended up having to drop down and get back onto the standard line, where I set up a belay and brought Matt up to finish the pitch.  After that I asked Matt to lead the rest of the climb.

The second pitch is more or less an awkward chimney.  The third pitch climbs fluted cracks, and had a couple of old pitons which we clipped.  The fourth and last pitch leads up to a small roof and then a couple of easy moves to the summit.

Matt Long and I shared the whole route all day with Sam and Jake.  Being cluttered really slowed down the climbing.  We didn’t always stick to the two teams climbing in order, either. For example on the third pitch Matt passed up Sam, and then I climbed before Jake.  On the last pitch Matt lead on our rope, then Jake lead on his rope, and then I followed, and finally Sam followed.   The sloppy organization somewhat distracted from the splendor of the climb.  It was nearly 5pm by the time all six of our party had reached the 11,253 foot peak, meaning it took more than five hours to climb 4 pitches.  In hind-sight, we should have spaced out the teams so were weren’t waiting on each other, and each 2-man team should have completed a pitch before the other one started out.

We took several photos on the peak, and by 5:45 pm we started down the NW ridge.  It took 30 or 40 minutes to get back to our camp, where we hung out, cooked dinner, and relaxed.  Time and again one of party would mention how awesome the cirque area is. Once the mosquitos came out, as twilight approached, I retired to the comfort of my tent.

Next morning we got a late start.  Matt J has to hike out, and Thomas and Matt L decided to team up to climb to climb the Triple Overhangs route on the summit wall, and remaining three of us head over to Question Mark Wall to climb the Lowe Route.  It was close to noon by the time we left camp.

We free soloed (unroped) up the 5.4 Pete’s Staircase arriving at the belay station for the first pitch of the Lowe Route.   Jake led the first pitch which is a hand crack in a dihedral and rated 5.8.  Sam took the second pitch which is a bit of a wandering 5.7 consisting of some crack work mingled in with holds and chicken heads.  Jake also led the third pitch which followed, and occasionally used crack, but mostly consisted of chicken heads.  I went second on all three routes and cleaned them.  Really fun climb with awesome exposure, and the three man team worked out great.  It took us about 5 hours to climb the three main pitches.

Matt L and Thomas got themselves into a bit of a traffic jam as The Triple Overhangs turned out to be the route of choice for several other parties in addition.  We watched them waiting to climb almost the whole time we were climbing.  So following our climb we scramble up to the south summit, and then Jake hurried over to the main summit in hopes of photographing them.  I waited on the south summit for about an hour, and when they still hadn’t shown I wandered over to the main summit, just as Matt was topping out.  He was a bit animated having taken a 40 foot fall (“I have take the whipper”), which skinned him up a bit and which had thrust Thomas’s head and shoulder into the wall.  

It was almost 9pm by the time we left the summit.  We traversed over to the south summit, and proceeded down to the top of Collins Highway (the ramp down from the saddle between Question Mark Wall and the South summit).  At the base of Collins Highway the sun was set and we had to rappel down in the dark.  It was 10 pm by the time we entered our camp.

Next morning, July 1, we packed up and were hiking out by 9:15 am.  It only took us 2 hours 45 minutes to descend.

1.	The Lone Peak Cirque. The cirque consists of the summit wall, the south summit wall, and question mark wall (the West Summit wall, not seen in this picture). We would be climbing the summit wall and question mark wall. (Photo by Jacob Moon).
2.	June 28, 2012. Jake, Thomas, Matt (sitting), and Sam at about an hour into our six hour hiked into the Lone Peak Cirque. We started hiking at 7pm and found a camp spot at 1:00 am.
3.	June 29, 2012 at about 8 pm. Matt J, Thomas, Sam and Jake slept under the stars.
4.	The fellas waking up.
5.	Camping and climbing combined requires a lot of gear.
6.	Around 10:30 am June 29, 2012 everyone was nearly ready to go climbing.
7.	The first day of climbing we headed to the summit wall, and the Open Book route. Looking back en route, toward the SW, we could see our camp in the moraine field.
8.	Matt J, Jake and Sam scrambling toward the belay area for the first of 4 pitches.
9.	At the top of this dihedral is the belay area for pitch 1 of the Open Book route.
10.	Around 2:30 pm both Sam and Matt L leading the third pitch. Our group of six had subdivided into 3 teams of two. Matt J and Thomas pulled away from the rest of the group after the first pitch and we didn't see them again until the summit. Sam and Jake roped up, and Matt L and Walter.
11.	Sam finishing up the 3rd pitch. Both our rope and Jake/Sam's rope are visible. We sort of climbed this pitch at the same time. I took this picture as I was following Matt and Sam was still leading the pitch. The clustering of our two groups tended to distract from the splendor of the climb.
12.	Sam about to top out on pitch 3 at 3:26 pm. We were moving rather slow at more than an hour per pitch on average.
13.	Matt L at the belay at the top of pitch 3.  By 4pm he would be leading the final pitch.
14.	Sam and Jake at the top of pitch 3. 4:10 pm.
14J. Matt L on the final pitch of the Open Book Route. Photo by Matt J.
15.	Jake near the top of the final pitch. Notice the two ropes. Matt L led this pitch, then Jake led it on a second rope, then I followed and cleaned the first rope, and finally Sam followed on the second rope. It was a bit unorganized, but still an amazing climb in a fabulous setting with great company.
16.	Jake at the top of pitch 4, at about 4:53 pm, belaying Sam. By 5pm our whole group of six had reached the 11,253 foot summit.  It took a little over 5 hours for our whole group of six to complete the 4-pitch climb of the Open Book route.
17.	Walter on the summit with Timp on the right side.
18.	Sam getting artsy on the peak!
19.	The view toward Utah Lake.
20.	By 5:45 pm we were exiting the summit.  We would follow the NW ridge down to the base of the cirque.
21.	Heading down the NW ridge.
22.	Descending into the cirque.
23.	Within 40 minutes we were back at camp and cooking dinner.  Both the summit wall and the south wall are visible here.
24.	Cooking and eating.
25.	The view from my tent at about 8:42 pm with the cirque bathed in an alpenglow.
26.	Question Mark wall.  June 30 Jake, Sam, and I would climb this via the 3-pitch Lowe Route. This photo was taken after our completion of the climb and en route to the south summit.
27.	To reach the base of the Lowe route one must ascend the 170 ft, 5.4, Pete's Stairway, which we climbed unroped. Sam at 12:32 pm, July 30, 2012.
28.	Jake led the first pitch (5.8) which followed a hand crack up a dihedral. Near 1pm he was about to complete the pitch.
29.	Sam at the first belay (bottom of pitch 1) with the summit wall and south summit walls behind him.   
•	29J.  Walter on the first pitch (photo by Jake Moon).
30.	Walter climbed second, and cleaned the route. Here Sam is starting the first pitch at about 1:52 pm.
31.	Sam about 2/3 of the way up pitch 1.
32.	To the right of us was a party of 2 climbing "Out of the Question".
33.	Sam led pitch 2 which was a wandering line consisting of some crack climbing and some chicken head holds. 5.7. Once again Walter climbed 2nd and cleaned. Here Sam is belaying Jake as he nears the top of the 2nd pitch at 4pm.
34.	Jake finishing pitch 2.
35.	Sam and Jake happy at the top of pitch 2.
36.	Jake looking down from the top of pitch 2.
37.	Walter looking up from the top of pitch 2.
38.	Around 4:45 pm Jake leading the third pitch (5.7), which followed a crack to the top.  Only the occasional crack move was needed as the pitch was covered with chicken head holds.
39.	Sam belaying Jake.
40.	Jake more than half way up the final pitch of the Lowe Route.  
•	40J. Walter on the third pitch (photo by Jake Moon).
41.	About an hour after Jake set out on pitch 3, it is Sam's turn to climb. Once again Walter went second and cleaned the pitch. 5:48 pm. 
•	41J. Sam on the third Pitch (photo by Jake Moon).
42.	Jake belaying Sam.
43.	Sam about 3/4 of the way up the final pitch of the Lowe Route on Question Mark Wall.
44.	Sam topping out at 5:56 pm. It took about 5 hours to get the three of us up three pitches, however, even though it wasn't,  it seemed much faster than yesterday’s 4-pitches I guess because it was more enjoyable climbing.
45.	Sam with Question Mark Wall behind him at 6:40 pm en route to the south summit.
46.	Sam scrambling from the south summit to the main summit.
47.	Sam scrambling from the south summit to the main summit.
48.	Another climbing party on the main summit at 7:23 pm, as seen from the south summit. Matt L and Thomas were still climbing "The Triple Overhangs" route at this time, as Jake, Sam and I waited for them.
49.	8:00 pm Matt L pops out just below the main summit. He had quite a story to tell having taken a 40 foot whipper when a piece of gear failed.  
•	49J. Thomas on the 4th pitch of Triple Overhangs (photo by Jake Moon).
50.	Sam on the NW ridge with Broadforks Twin Peaks behind him.
51.	By 8:22 pm Thomas had joined Matt just below the main summit.
52.	By 8:35 Thomas had reached the 11,253 foot summit.
53.	Looking over to Question Mark wall from the main summit. The Lowe Route follows the crack to the left of the "?".
54.	Notice the "bomber" belay anchor attached to the flag's chain.
55.	Jake wandering over to the south summit at 9 pm.
56.	Sam making his way back to the south summit. We descended via the ramp (Collins Highway) from the saddle between the south summit and Question Mark wall. 
57.	The sunset over the Great Salt Lake.
58.	The sunset over the Great Salt Lake.  From Collins Highway we rappelled into the cirque and arrived back to camp at 10 pm.
59.	I noticed this "face" in the rock near our camp.
60.	In the morning the stream from the melting snow was frozen along the edges.
61.	At about 9:15 am, July 1, we set out on the return hike having enjoyed two days of amazing climbing and three nights of camping.
62.	About an hour into the less than three hour return hike, we stopped below Ennis(?) peak, with the cirque clearly visible behind us.


