July 7, 2012, Sam Cannon and I drove up to Willard Utah and met Scott Cooney to climb the London Spire, the tallest of the three Willard Spires located approximately 1.4 km NW (309 degrees) of Willard Peak.  The London Spire has an elevation of approximately 8400 ft and overlooks the Willard Bay of the Great Salt Lake. We convened just before 9:00 am, and were hiking by 9:18 am.  We parked at the old gravel pit located on the road between 600 S and 655 S. It took us 3 hours of hiking and scrambling to reach the base of the spire where the rock turns from dark colored gneiss to the lighter colored quartzite.  After pausing for some snacks and water, we got out the climbing gear, and by 12:40 pm we were on the first pitch.  

The climbing started out as lower class 5 climbing (5.5 ish) and we all felt comfortable climbing it unroped.  After an hour of free soloing, we’d completed about 60% of the climb.  At this point the climbing became steeper with less prominent holds so we roped up and climbed about a half a pitch as a simultaneous climb (aka “simo-climb”) .  At the top of the simo-section we encounter the crux of the route; a large roof which the beta informed us we should traverse on the right (south-side).  The traverse had breathtaking exposure (2000 feet, or so I’ve read) with a 5.7 rating.  Sam was eager to take the sharp end of the rope, and neither Scott nor I opposed.  One piece of protection was placed at the belay station, and Sam set off on the airy traverse placing only 3 pieces of protection as I belayed him.  I was tied into the middle of our 70 m rope, so Sam had less than 35 meters of rope to work with, and it was just enough to get him over the challenging section.  I followed Sam leaving the protection in for Scott to clean.  Only once did I sneak a look down into the canyon far below.  

Within 45 minutes all three of us had spanned the exposed section and were standing just below the top of the thumb of the spire (as viewed from afar). We quickly simo-climbed one more section, this time with Scott in the lead then at the top of the thumb, more or less, we coiled the rope ready to free solo the remaining third of the climb.  At this time dark clouds had rolled in and an occasional spit was falling along with the noise of thunder.  I even saw one lightening flash.  Needless to say we began to move more quickly. Before long we encounter a 5.7 section, of two or three moves, which both Scott and Sam climbed unroped, but I didn’t feel like taking any chances and so I had them lower me a rope, and I safely made the moves.   At 3:55 pm, after 3 hours of climbing, we topped out.   Nearby there was a herd of mountain goats, and we wondered if they were indigenous or if they’d been introduced.

We took a few quick pictures, scramble across to ensure we’d hit the actual high point, and then started immediately down.  After a 3 hour approach and 3 plus hours of climbing, it shouldn’t have been surprising that we were in for a 3 hour 45 minute descent. Nonetheless the descent via the gully to the south of the spire (Holmes Canyon?) was steep, rough, and time consuming not to mention hot.  About three quarters of the way down Scott nearly stepped on a big rattle snake, which Sam proceeded to antagonize getting it to strike at a stick.  By 7:45 pm, just shy of 10.5 hours since we set off in the morning we were back at the cars, happy to have a much needed drink of water.  Another successfully, fun adventure completed.
0.	Looking at the some of the Northern Wasatch peaks from I-15 (Willard Spires left, Willard Peak middle, Ben Lomond right).  Photo from SummitPost.org.
1.	The London Spire. The London Spire is the tallest (at approximately 8400 ft) of the three Willard Spires located approximately 1.4 km NW (309 degrees) of Willard Peak, and overlooking the Willard Bay of the Great Salt Lake.
2.	Sam on the 3 hour approach to the London Spire.
3.	Near the base of the spire where the rock turns from dark colored gneiss to lighter colored quartzite. It took 3 hours of hiking and scrambling to reach the base of the spire where the rock climbing would begin. (Photo by Sam Cannon).
4.	Scott took the lead climbing unroped at about 12:40 pm.
5.	Walter and Sam followed. The climbing started out as lower class 5 climbing (5.5 ish) and we all felt comfortable climbing it unroped. (Photo by Scott Cooney)
6.	Scott
7.	Sam, with Willard Bay behind him.
8.	The climb was a series of big steps (so to speak). Basically we occasionally hit some flatter spots that would lead us to the next vertical section.
9.	Scott, with Sam photographing him.
10.	Scott.
11.	Sam and Scott. 1:11 pm (about 30 minutes into the rock climbing and 4 hours into the adventure).
a.	Walter.  Photo by Sam Cannon.
b.	Walter.  Photo by Sam Cannon. 
12.	About an hour into the climbing we pulled out the rope and simo-climbed about 1/2 pitch worth leading us to the crux.  Here Scott is looking up at Sam (not visible) who is leading the simo-section.
a.	Getting roped up for the first simo-climb. Photo by Sam Cannon.
b.	Walter on the simo-climb.  Photo by Sam Cannon.
13.	Sam giving Scott a shoulder belay.
14.	Scott nearing the pitch we simo-climbed.
14b. The line starting at "Car Park" shows the approximate approach route. Looking "down" from Scott (the climber) along the lighter colored quartzite to the end of the red line shows a nice section of the South West Ridge route we were climbing.  The red line on the left is the canyon we used on the return hike (Holmes Canyon?).
15.	Sam leading the 5.7 "crux" traverse.  To the right was a 2000 ft (or so I've read) drop.  Photo by Scott Cooney.
16.	Sam on the crux with 2 of the three pieces of pro in.
17.	Scott waiting to climb as I belayed Sam over the crux. 2:15 pm.
a.	Walter starting out on the air traverse (crux).  Photo by Sam Cannon.
b.	Walter on the crux. Photo by Sam Cannon.
18.	Scott about to begin the airy roped traverse over the 5.7 crux of the south west ridge route of London Spire.  Holmes Canyon(?) our return hike route is clearly seen on the left side.
19.	Sam belaying Scott over the crux.
20.	Scott on the crux.
21.	Scott on the crux.
22.	Scott on the crux.
23.	By 2:50 pm (a little over 2 hours into the climbing, and 5.5 hours into the adventure) we had all spanned the crux.
a.	Following the belayed crux, we simo-climbed one more section with Scott in the lead. Photo by Sam Cannon.
24.	Sam and Walter heading up the last vertical section which would step us over to the remaining third of the climb (as seen in the next photo).  Photo by Scott Cooney.
25.	Scott in front of the remaining third of the climb which would take us to the approximately 8400 ft top of the London Spire. We coiled the rope again for this last section, but we did run into one section of two or three 5.7 moves for which I requested a belay.
a.	Walter on rope for the couple of tough moves. Photo by Sam Cannon.
26.	Photo shot looking NW with the Willard Bay behind Sam. It's clear we were quite high up.
a.	Scott on the last pitch. Photo by Sam Cannon.
27.	The "summit ridge" with the thunder storms threatening. 3:47 pm (about 3 hours into the climbing, and 6.5 hours into the adventure).  Less than 10 minutes to go to reach the high point.
28.	The "summit ridge" with the thunder storms threatening. 3:47 pm (about 3 hours into the climbing, and 6.5 hours into the adventure). Less than 10 minutes to go to reach the high point.
29.	The "summit ridge" with the thunder storms threatening. 3:47 pm (about 3 hours into the climbing, and 6.5 hours into the adventure). Less than 10 minutes to go to reach the high point.
30.	On top at 3:55 pm. Sam, Walter and Scott.
31.	Scott with Willard Bay behind him.
32.	Walter
a.	On the descent we were able to avoid the rappel by taking this “highway”.  Aka Cannon’s Bowling alley (our joking name). Photo by Sam Cannon.
33.	The descent took us into Holmes(?) Canyon, and consisted of lots of scree and boulder hoping in a mostly dry creek bed. Approach 3 hours. 0.5 hours of snack/rest time at saddle. Climbing time 3.25 hours. Descent time was 3.75 hours. Car to Car 10.5 hours.
