October 4th William DaBell, Ruebin Cousin, and I drove down to Moab arriving around noon.  There we meet up with Daniel Lay, and after lunch we drove to Wall Street to climb.  It was quite cold, and it even snained (snow mixed with rain) for a very brief time.  Nonetheless we were able to get some climbing in.  William jumped on “30 Seconds Over Potash” (trad 5.8) while I belayed him, and he took a fall pulling me into the wall (luckily feet first as I was ready for it).  A very tough 5.8, but he managed the lead. I followed, and managed to tweek my lower right back muscles (almost the right hip) when doing a lay-back move.  I think my back was ready to go out because the hips had felt out of alignment since my hockey game on Monday (in which I proudly scored 4 goals and got one assist).  The drive down in a cramped back seat, followed by the lay-back was just too much for my back – my old sitting lower back injury – not a good way to start a 3 day climbing trip!  The back didn’t seem to hurt when I climbed, so I took a top-rope on “Nervous in Suburbia” (spot 5.10a), which turned out to be an easy 5.10a (tough lead though as it only has 4 bolts).    Danny had to finish the lead, after William attempted it.  

Next we returned to Moab for Ruebin and William to buy groceries, and then we drove to The Ice Cream Parlor wall to climb more.  There Danny belayed me on a 5.7 bolted slab climb called “Left Slab”, and then we top-roped “Parlor Game” (5.9).  Then we switched ropes with William and Ruebin, and we top-roped Critical Mass (5.8).  Next I lead “5.6 Corner” (trad 5.6).  By the time William and Danny climbed it, the sun had set.  So we set off for Indian Creek stopping in Moab for Ruebin to buy a Wendy’s burger, and William to buy a water jug.  By 9:30 pm we reached the Super Bowl camp ground in Indian creek.  I set up my tent and ate my pre-cooked potatoes and sausage dinner.  By now my back was very stiff – I sat on my water bottle on the drive from Moab to The Creek to ease the pain.

Next morning Ruebin (who is a very rude ass hole originally from LA California) told William to go get gas, even though his car estimated he had 140 mile range left, and William, being very nice, did as told.  But he had to drive to Monticello to get it, and he was gone for over 1.5 hours, and the whole time Ruebin bitched about it calling William stupid and telling Danny to drop William from a pending Zions “Moonlight Buttress” trip in favor of taking Ruebin.  So it was after 11 am by the time we got to the crowded Supercrack Buttress.  With the crowds I didn’t get on to a climb until 2pm!  I wasn’t too worried about it, with the sore back and all, plus most of the climbs in the Creek are tougher than I climb and they are all cracks which I am still learning the techniques for.  On the other hand, Ruebin who bragged about being such a great climbed, bitched and bitched about not getting in enough climbing while at the same time refusing to lead anything, as he waited on Danny to lead every climb.  All of us had enough of his whining and at one point I pointed out to him that he had picked the Supercrack Buttress on a Saturday knowing it is the busiest area in The Creek.  He didn’t like that.  My first attempt was on “Incredible Hand Crack” (trad 5.10c), of course I struggled and only made it to the crux (a roof).  Next I took two laps on the “Twin Cracks” (very easy 5.9) on top rope.  My back didn’t like that!  At the end of the day Ruebin did a lead of Gorilla (5.10), which made him happy finally, after everyone else followed it, I took a try but it was too much for my back.

Back at camp that night, it was cold again, but a bit warmer than the night before which had a heavy frost and even froze a layer in Ruebin water bottle, Danny made a fire and we ate our dinners.   By 10 pm I said good night, and lay down on my aching back after taking a Tylenol PM.  

I got up at 7:30 am on Sunday morning, while the rest still slept.  It gave me time to organize my stuff and eat in peace and quiet.  It was 11 am again by the time we had taken down camp and found The Optimator climbing area. Ruebin told William that he would never go on another climbing trip with him again and William said “Do you promise?”  I waited for William as Ruebin and Danny walked to the wall.  When we reached it Danny took us over to “Charlies Pillar” (trad 5.8), for me to lead, but with the stiff back I was reluctant. That morning I had decided not to climb as I feared for my back, but I decided to follow Ruebin up the 5.8 after he lead it.  I liked it enough that I later returned with William and I lead it, not to the liking of my back however.  One of the cams walked and neither William nor I got get it out, however Danny managed to get it out.

In spite of the back problem, and rude Ruebin I still enjoyed being in The Creek, and it was great to meet Danny.
1.	12 (noon) Danny getting on the first climb of the day (Oct 5) called Cyon Crack (5.tough). while Ruebin belays and William watches.
2.	Danny struggling up it.  It was so hard that it was the only climb without hordes of people waiting on it.
3.	2:15 pm, me  (Walter) at the roof of Incredible Hand Crack (5.10c) where I could go no further.  I’d like to try it again without the bad back.  Top rope has been photo-shopped out.
4.	Same as three but with the rope showing.
5.	Me on IHC
6.	William on Twin Cracks (5.9) at 3:39 pm.
7.	Danny on Gorilla (5.10) at 4:45 pm.
8.	William on Gorilla at 6:15 pm.
9.	12:24 pm Oct 6, Danny on the overhang Anunnaki 5.11c.
10.	Same as pic 9
11.	William after falling on Anunnaki.
12.	See 11
13.	Ruebin leading Neat (5.10) at 3pm
14.	See 13
15.	See 13
16.	William on Neat
17.	William on Neat about 3:40 pm
