September 20th Ana and I drove to the City of Rocks in Idaho.  Aymara Jimenez had invited us to join the Wasatch Mountain Club “CoR Chossfest”.  It took us 3.5 hours to get there, and we arrived by 10:30 am.  We checked out Camp Rock and Register Rock with their old 1840’s signatures, and located the camp spot, and checked out the area a bit.  There were a lot of people around the camps, but we saw very few people climbing, and almost all were on Elephant Rock.  We started climbing on a couple of the routes on Practice Rock, and by 2pm the camp spot (#46) became ours so set up the tent.  After lunch we wander down to Bumblie Rock to climb “Too Much Fun”, but it was occupied.  Rather than waiting we walked over to Flaming Rock, and en route I twisted my ankle, luckily I was able to walk it off. Ana belayed me on the first pitch of “Rain Dance”, after which I was able to get on “Too Much Fun”.  On the way back to camp we stopped at Bath Rock and I free-soloed the “Cowboy Route”, and down climbed via the “Via Feiretta”.  

After dinner we walked down to the camp spot near Bath Rock intent on saying hi to a few of the people from the WMC, but it was dark and which camps spots they were in wasn’t obvious so we returned to camp.  We arrived back as Luke and Aymara were parking.  We made introduction and we went to bed as they set off to find the WMC people. We both fell asleep immediately only to be woken up by someone shining there car headlights on our tent and asking the camp next something about “Eric and Polly”.  

Next morning Josh Jones along with Crystal and MaryMegan arrived at our camp at 9:00 am, having slept in Crystals car overnight.  Learning from Aymara that some of the WMC people where heading to Elephant Rock we decided to start the day of climbing there.  Ana opted to stay at camp, and Luke and Aymara wanted to head down to Bumblie Rock, so I joined with Josh, Crystal and MaryMegan.  

The easier Trad routes were all either occupied or in need of larger gear than we had, so Josh volunteered to lead a bolted route that we had no beta for.  It was an impressive lead, and I found it tough to follow on top-rope. On top I ran into Robert Ging from the WMC but I didn’t recognize him at first, luckily he recognized me.  Once all four of us did the climb, we wandered to the rock just south (and a bit east) of Elephant Rock.  There we found a mixed route – first half was a trad crack climbed followed by a sport face climb.  The folks leaving it informed us that it was 5.9.  I lead it, doing a few French free moves on the second half.  Once everyone took had climbed it it was close to 1 pm, so made our way back to camp to check on Ana and to have lunch.  

After lunch we decided to head over to Stripe Rock to climb “Cruel Shoes”.  Ana again opted to stay in camp, and Luke and Aymara were heading to Bath Rock. By 3:00 pm we had found the route, and by 3:15 Josh was climbing.  We broke into two teams of two, Josh and Crystal, and MaryMegan and me.  Josh lead all three pitches for his team and I did likewise for my team.  The first pitch was the toughest and took the longest, it was about 4:45 pm by the time Crystal started up the second pitch.  I arrived at the top of pitch 2 just as Crystal was leaving, and as such avoided the wait we had encountered at the top of pitch 1. Pitches 2 and 3 went relatively fast, and by 5:45 all four of us were on top of Stripe Rock.  We snapped a few pictures on the summit, and MaryMegan pointed out the tiny shrimp living in the pools of water.  

I went first on the rappel, and had to deal with two very tangled ropes.  Once we all got down we walked back around to where we had left the girls packs, and I was lucky enough to find the quick-draw that had come unclipped from MaryMegans harness on the second pitch – it seemed fine.  By 6:45 pm we were on the hike out.  

By 7:30 pm we were back at camp.  Once Josh and the girls got their tent set up Josh and I set out to run up the “Cowboy Route” at about 7:45 pm with the sun setting.  The day before I had summited the south peak, so this time we summited the north peak before heading down.

Back at camp we had dinner, then hung around Luke’s’ fire.   As I feared the ash blew toward MaryMegan’s tent and soon enough the tent got at least one “ash-hole” - soon after the fire was put out and we all went to bed. I suffered from pour digestion that night and had a hard time sleeping as a result, even had to get up at 1:00 am to use the outhouse.  

Next morning, I was the first one up at 7:30 am.  After breakfast we decided, time-wise, that it was best to head over to Parking Lot rock to hit “Delay of Game”  (5.8 Sport) and “Norma’s Book” (5.7 Trad).  The routes were still in the shade, and so it was chilly.  Josh lead the sport route, and I lead the trad route.  By 1:00 pm we were hungry and it was time to drive back home, so we said our good byes.  Ana and I made sandwiches, and then left.  

We got to SLC by 4:15 so we stopped at Trader Joes, where some fool let his cart roll, down-hill, across the parking lot, where it smashed into the left corner of my bummer leaving a nice small dent.  After shopping we stopped at the Artesian Spring and filled up my 4 one gallon jugs.

Back to Orem by 6pm, had dinner at my house (frozen Indian food from Trader Joes), then I took Ana home.  Good trip!
1.	Josh half way up pitch one of Cruel Shoes on Stripe Rock about 3:30 pm, Sept 21, 2013.
2.	Zoomed view of Josh on pitch one
3.	MaryMegan on pitch one at 4:25 pm.
4.	Crystal about to start up pitch two.
5.	Crystal on pitch two.
6.	MaryMegan almost up pitch one just before 5 pm.
7.	Crystal on the left, with MaryMegan and Josh looking at the tiny shrimp in one of the water pools on the top of Stripe Rock, about 4:45 pm.
8.	Just on the highest point with the view looking to the NE behind him.
9.	Josh in another summit pose.
10.	 Crystal on the high point.
11.	 Walter with the view looking SW behind him.
12.	 The threesome at 6pm on top of Stripe Rock.
13.	 Leaving Stripe Rock  at 6:50 pm.  Cruel Shoe starts left of the crack with pitch 3 on the slab below and just left of the summit high point.
14.	 Josh insisted on carrying both ropes on the return hike.
15.	 7:45 pm , Sept 21, 2013 – Josh and Walter heading up the 5.5 Cowboy Route on Bath Rock.
16.	 Three quarters of the way up the Cowboy route.
17.	 Topping out on the Cowboy route.
18.	 Sept 22, 2013 – Parking Lot Rock.
19.	 Walter topping out on the Norma’s Book route.
20.	 Josh following on Norma’s Book route.
21.	 Walter approaching the rappel at the top of Delay of Game route (that is how we got down from Norma’s Book).
22.	 Walter climbing Delay of Game.
23.	 Walter climbing Delay of Game.
24.	 Walter climbing Delay of Game.
25.	 Walter climbing Delay of Game.
26.	 Walter pausing at a safe spot as belayer Josh passes the knot connecting the two 60 m ropes needed for this climb.
27.	 Walter nearing the top of Delay of Game.



