September 25th Josh Jones and I drove down to Red Rock Canyon, NV -  located about 20 miles west of the Las Vegas strip.  We arrived by 12:30 pm (Vegas time), and set out to find the so-called Panty Wall (a sport climbing area).  We ended up encountering two fellow climbers who pointed out the wall, but invited us to try out the wall they were climbing on called Hamlet Wall.  We each did five climbs on the Hamlet Wall.  I did a 5.7, 5.8 (2 times), 5.9, and a 5.10a -  the rating on all were soft.  Josh did the same climbs but he did the 8 once and the 10a twice.  We were tired from the drive down, plus we had climbed the day before in BCC at the Dead Snag area (Jigs Up, East Dihedrals, and Steort’s Ridge) so by 5pm we headed to Vegas to find Josh’s time share where we would be staying.   We stayed at the Wyndum resort on Las Vegas Blvd near Blue Diamond Road.  After checking in, we went out to eat at Chipotles, and then picked up a few groceries for the next two days breakfasts and lunches.   Then it was back to the suite to clean up, get organized for the next day, and sleep.  

September 26th we were up at 7:00 am (Vegas time), and by 8:00 am driving back to Red Canyon.  By 8:30 am we had arrived at the Pine Canyon pullout, and before 9 am we were hiking toward Mescalito in search of the classic Cat-In-The-Hat route, a six pitch trad route rated 5.6 on the south side.  Without much trouble we located the route and by 10 am I was leading the first pitch.  We climbed on my twin ropes.  Within an hour we both stood at the top of pitch two (I had run pitch 1 and 2 as one pitch covering around 180 feet).  Pitch 3 was located a short walk to the east,  and up a boulder problem to the belay ledge, where it climbed a gully 70 feet up to a tree – Josh lead that one (5.5).  Pitch 4 was the best one as the wall steepened, and the climb followed a crack to under a roof, then stepped left to another crack up to a slung boulder belay – covering 150 vertical feet (I’d rate it 5.7).  We completed this pitch by 12:30 pm. Pitch 5 is really not need, but Josh did it by placing one piece of gear, on a 5.3 traverse for 30 feet or so to a big flat belay area, sandwiched below the varnished face of pitch 6 and a wall behind (east of face). Pitch 6 could easily be started at the top of pitch 4, by clipping the first bolt on the 5.10d variation with a double length sling, and then angling over to the main crack of pitch 6.  I hoped Josh would want to lead pitch 6 but he was reluctant so I again took the lead leaving Josh with several of the small cams only to find the crack needed small gear despite the appearance to the contrary from below, so I had to use my tri-cams for the first time on the climb. I started this pitch at about 1pm. About ¾ of the way up the crack ended and the climb became a very steep slab with no good holds and no place to place protection.  There is one bolt on this section but one has to run it out quite far, after clipping the bolt, before reaching a short crack just below the two-bolt belay station.  I really didn’t enjoy this section of the pitch.  

By 1:45 pm, less than four hours roped climbing covering six pitches and 650 feet, we were both at the top of pitch six where we left the ropes and gear and set off hoping to scramble to the top of Mescalito.  The scramble was challenging 4th class, with route finding, and we had to down climb at times to find easier alternatives.   Alas where the rock changed from tan color to red we encountered a 5th class chimney so we decided to call it good.  This was 2:40 pm, or about 4.5 hours from the time we started the first pitch.  It took about 20 minutes to scramble back down to the gear, and another hour to do the five rappels back to the base of pitch one.  We used the bolted anchors at the top of pitch six to do a double length rope rappel to the slung boulder at the top of pitch four.  The second abseil also needed two ropes to get to the slung tree at the top of pitch 3.  The next three rappels were each done with a single rope – first to the big platform above the anchors at the top of pitch 2 (then a short unroped down climb and traverse over to pitch 2 anchors), followed by a rappel to the anchors skipped on the climb up at the top of pitch 1, and finally a full sixty meters down to the ground (with only six inches left on the rope).

We had talked, the previous evening, about climbing the Cookie Monster route following Cat-In-The-Hat, but that wasn’t any longer practical, so we hiked straight back to the parking lot, running into some folks from New Jersey who we chatted with as we walked out.

On the drive back we stopped at Dickey’s BBQ for dinner.  Back at the resort Josh went in to get shampoo, and got talked into signing up for a breakfast and sales pitch for the following morning.  I had already told him we didn’t have time for that, but they offered him $50 dollars to do it, and he couldn’t resist that (I guess).  That evening we sorted gear, cleaned-up, and watched TV (Josh in his master room, and me in the living room).  

Next morning, Friday September 27, 2013, I was up at 5:30 am (for no reason), and by 8:15 am we wandered over for the breakfast and sales pitch.  I ate breakfast while Josh waited for the salesman, and then I waited for him.  By 10:30 am we were back at the Pine Canyon trailhead, hiking back to Mescalito this time looking for the Cookie Monster route (5.7) on the east face.  From the base the route looked tough and it followed a sort of chimney/dihedral to where it topped out, just east of, and about half way between pitches 3 and 4 of Cat-In-The-Hat.   I was glad Josh was willing to lead the first pitch, starting out about 11:30 am.  He had a little trouble getting into the chimney with the rack not being able to swing behind him because of his back-pack – and he yelled out a few profanities in frustration. However, he did a great job leading the pitch, only placing six or seven pieces (all cams) in addition to one fixed piece in almost 200 feet of climbing. Once I arrive at the top of the pitch he commented that that was his first real trad lead.  I took the sharp end of the rope for the second pitch, and found the climbing to be easier (although it was rated harder) then pitch 4 and pitch 6 of Cat-In-The-Hat.  Once I topped out, I belayed Josh up via a tree and two cams, he arrived at about 1:40 pm (so just over two hours to do 350 vertical feet).  Both pitches of the climb were very enjoyable climbing.  We looked for the rappel station I had spotted the day before and finally realized it was another 15 feet above us.  Following lunch, Josh free climbed up to the slung boulder of the rap station, and set the rope.  A single rope abseil got us to the top of pitch 3 of the Cat-In-The-Hat route, where we did the same three single rope rappels of the day before to the base of pitch 1 of Cat-In-The-Hat arriving there at about 4pm (or about 4.5 hours from the time we started climbing).  Back to the car by 5pm, we sorted gear and headed out for the six hour drive back to Utah County. 

We were back to Josh’s place in Springville by 11 pm (Utah time).  Temps in Vegas had been mid-70’s during the day, and in Utah at that time temps were in the high 30’s Farenheit.  Josh applied $40 of the $50 he got from the sales pitch to gas costs (very generous of him), and so in all the opportunity cost of the trip for me was only  $55 dollars (my share of the gas expenses).

1.	Mescalito, the red-capped rock formation in the center, that we were hiking into to climb via the Cat-In-The-Hat Route.  Sept 26, 2013.
2.	Walter leading pitch one of the Cat-In-The-Hat Route on Mescalito.
3.	Can you find Walter?
4.	Walter belaying, from the top of Pitch 2.
5.	The view, west, from the top of Pitch 2.
6.	Josh getting set to lead Pitch 3.
7.	Josh on pitch 3.
8.	Josh climbing up pitch 4, about 2 hours into the climb.
9.	Josh doing the traverse of pitch 5.  Can you see the Las Vegas Strip on the horizon?
10.	Walter leading pitch 6, the final roped pitch of our Mescalito climb.
11.	Same
12.	Same
13.	Same
14.	A view from the top. .  Can you see the Las Vegas Strip on the horizon?
15.	Another view
16.	The blue spot is where we left our gear (packs) , and began the unroped climbing.
17.	Josh at our “topping out” point, about where Mescallito turns from tan rock to red rock. It took 4.5 hours to reach this point.  We did 650 feet of roped climbing and maybe 400 feet unroped (guess).
18.	 Walter spans two rock formations at our turning around spot.  Vegas is behind me to the east on the horizon.
19.	We got off the climb (after 5 rappels) at about 4pm having started climbing at 10 am.
20.	Looking back at Mescaltio on the hike out. We climbed tan rock (with black varnish) to where the rock turns red.  Route started on South side and finished on the East face side seen here.
21.	Sept 27, we return to Mescalito this time to climb its Cookie Monster Route.  Hear is Josh hiking in at 10:30 am.
22.	Josh leading Pitch one of Cookie Monster at 11:40 am.
23.	Josh on P1.
24.	Walters foot and leg at the top of P2 as he belays up Josh.
25.	Josh nearing the top of P2.
26.	Josh nearing the top of P2.
27.	Josh sorting gear at the top of P2.  It took about 2 hours to do the 350 foot climb.
28.	Walter
29.	Josh at the top of the first of four single rope abseils.  The descent catches the Cat-In-The-Hat rappels at the top of that routes P3.
