June 21, 2013 Matt Jespersen picked me up from my house at 1:30 am.  On only 2 hours of sleep, we drove approximate 350 miles to the Grand Teton National Park.  We entered the park at about 7:15 am and were lucky enough to be allowed in without paying as the cashier was still setting up for the day. We pulled into the Lupine parking area about 7:30 am, with an enormous view of the east face of 12,325 ft Teewinot directly in front us.  It’s not often one gets to see from the parking lot both the mountain and the route up it.  

By 8:00 am we were hiking, first through the meadow paralleling the full rapid stream with its water falls, and soon up the infamous 18 switchbacks which are really more like 24 switchbacks.  The sky was dark with clouds, and very light precipitation was falling including very light snow.  Due to the weather we both had to wonder if we would be denied the peak this day, and I commented that if we were forced to turn around that we still had Saturday for a second attempt.  The clouds came and went, and luckily the precipitation didn’t amount to anything.
 
Within 3 hours we had reached the snow at the base of the Idol and Worshipper gendarmes, and we donned our crampons and pulled out our ice axes.  The snow gradually steepened as we climbed, and I estimated the slope to be close to 40 degrees.  I stuck to the snow as long as possible, until it was melted off at the crux. Matt opted for the rocks a bit sooner.  

For the crux, we had read that we should stick to the right side of the gully, but we found the scrambling to our liking on the left side, and we were able to parallel the gully on its left to just a few feet below the prominent col (a land mark one can see from the parking lot).  Just below the col we crossed the snow-filled gully going north, and got back on the rock around 1:15 pm.  From there it was a short 4th class scramble to the high point.  Teewinot means “many pinnacles” and the pinnacle which is the highest can’t actually be seen until one is basically on top of the mountain, as it is the western most.  By about 1:40 pm we took turns crouching on the top, taking pictures and having our picture taken, so small and dangerous was the summit.  The view west of the north face of The Grand was breathtaking.

With dark clouds gathering, we started down within 15 minutes of summiting.  Lightening didn’t seem likely but we didn’t want to chance it.  We did our best to retrace our steps down, and it felt like we were making really good time until after crossing the gully and reaching the crux we looked back up and realized how little we had descended.  As soon as I could I got on to the snow and began glissading, which allowed me to reached the end of the snow by 4:00 pm, at which point I took a 30 minute rest and watched Matt kick steps down the snow.  

Once off the main snow field it still took us close to 2.5 hours to reach and descend the switchbacks and cross the meadow to the parking lot.  However, it might have gone quicker if we hadn’t had to detour due to a bear sighting.  As one reaches the water fall, a clear view of the meadow below opens up, and as I was looking over the meadow while Matt was getting some water from the creek, I noticed a brown spot, down in the meadow and within 10 feet of the trail.  I immediately identified it as a bear, but due to the distance I could not be sure.  I watched it for several minutes, and  it didn’t seem to move, so I decided not to mention it and I began to move, and just as I did, it moved.  Matt was close behind me now, so I told him there is a bear down there next to the trail, and I asked him if he could use his camera to get a zoomed-in look.  He said he didn’t have a lens for that, and so we both watched the brown spot until it again moved and we both knew it was a bear.

We discussed what we should do, and wondered if the park was home to grizzly bears or just black bears.  We decided we would continue down watching the area and making lots of noise.  In the meantime the bear moved into the trees and we lost sight of it.  We did spot it again, and we both agreed that it looked big. When we got to within 100 yards of where we guessed it was, we both took out our ice axes and increased our noise level.  We saw it dash across the trail going north west, so we cut over to the south and continued to head east, but the terrain was rough and we opted to not go much south.  Continuing noisily down, Matt spotted a cub, but I didn’t take the time to see if for myself.  Committed as we were we hurried down, and soon made it to the safety of the car.  Thankfully I never felt in danger from the bears.  I don’t think I wanted to commit to it at the time, but in hindsight, I’m quite confident the bear I saw was a grizzly with its cinnamon color and shoulder hump.

