Got back from Red Rock the evening of Oct 28, a day early, and the next day got a text message from William DaBell inviting me to join him and Daniel Lay in Zion NP.  I needed a day to think about it and after Ana got all emotional and prideful with me I decided to go on Oct 31.  Oct 30 I went up to Sundance and got a season pass, and drove the Alpine Loop into AF canyon, which had some very icy spots (apparently it had snowed 12 inches up there the night before).  Had a hockey game Oct 30 as well, and I got the first goal – we won.  

Oct 31 by the time I slept in from the late hockey game, cooked, and got my gear ready, it was after 3pm, and I didn’t get away till 4:30 pm.  It took just under 4 hours to get to La Verikin and a full tank of gas ($50). Meet up with Danny and William at Zion Pizza and Noodle, they had gotten off Touchstone late, so my arrival time was perfect.  We got a spot at the South Campground that night, and the next day we climbed Aries Butte (6492 feet) east of the tunnel.  We followed the Led by Sheep route up the southeast aspect.  The route is mistakenly rated 5.7 grade III, but is really 5.2 grade I.  It is a bolted slab of 4 pitches. We started the actual roped climbing at noon and it took about an hour to climb. Overall with the approach, climb, rappel, and return it took about 3.5 hours.  After a late lunch, we headed to the visitors center, and caught the shuttle to Weeping Rock, and by 5 pm we were on the Weeping Rock Chimneys (Left side) 5.7 (another misleading rating, as it was more like a 5.9).  Danny lead P1 & 2, and I took P3 topping out as the sunset.  We rappelled in the dark with head lamps, and managed to make it to the road in time to catch the shuttle.  That night we returned to the South Campground.  

The mornings in the park this time of year are very cold, and it takes till about 10 am till the sun really gets to the campground so Nov 2 we got another late start.   This time we headed over to Lady Mountain in search of the North Spur and the so-called Chimney Sweep route.  Lady Mountain is accessed from Zion Lodge via the Emerald Pool trail by turning left immediately after crossing the bridge, then taking a hard right turning 180 degrees to the north unto the upper trail (which was technically closed due to trail erosion) not to be confused with the trail to the Upper Pool.  The guide book said to take the Upper Emerald Pools trail, which we understood to mean the trail to the Upper Pool, no, do not go to the Upper Pool.  With a lot of back tracking, bushwhacking etc., we finally found the start of the route several hundred feet up the unmaintained Lady Mountain Trail at about 1:30 pm.  William decided he didn’t want to climb it, and I decided it was too tough for me to lead, but Danny jumped right on it, and so I followed.  It was a dirty, unpleasant climb.  Danny lead the first three pitches up the chimneys and I took the fourth which is a scramble up broken terrain (4th and low 5th class) to a broad vegetated ledge about half way up the spur.  I was ready to rappel down after the second pitch, and did suggest it, but Danny wanted to continue.  Danny lead the 5th pitch (all the pitches he lead felt like 5.9 or higher) to where we had a choice of veering left for the original finish or continuing straight up for the direct finish.  Direct looked tough, and we had no beta for the original.  By now it was after 5pm, and we had at least 2 hours more of climbing up remaining (with darkness arriving at 7pm). Thus, I gladly agreed when Danny suggested we rappel off.  Back at the vegetated ledge, Danny headed south (away from our climbing route) and found a tree with webbing on it.  It was close to a gully I recognized as the descent route so we decided to try it, and it worked getting us onto the abandoned Lady Mountain Trail.  Before dark we got back to our stuff at the base of the climb, and then hiked down the rest of the Lady Mountain trail in the dark.  I was exhausted, from the dirty unpleasant climbing, and from a lack of water.  William met us at the visitor center as we got off the shuttle bus, and we headed into Springville for a hamburger (too tired to cook).  I suggested we use the South Campground again, as it was my turn to pay.   

At dinner we had discussed hiking Angels Landing the next day and rappelling down Moonlight Buttress, but the morning of Nov 3 Danny announced that his toe was to sore (numb) to do the hike.  So I suggested to William that we hike to the top of Lady Mountain via the abandoned trail we had discovered yesterday.  The unmaintained trail was put in the 1920s and contained over 2000 feet of cable, and at least one ladder, to protect and guide climbers to the 6945 feet summit and it was known as the cable route.  On stepper sections steps have been carved into the sandstone. By the 1970s too many rescues and more than one death caused the park to remove the cable and ladders and stop advertising and maintaining the route.  As such today, it makes for a great adventure climb of mostly 3rd class scrambling with plenty of 4th class sections and two or three lower 5th class sections. Total elevation gain is 2675 feet in 1.9 miles one way.   To find the unmaintained trail, get on the upper trail as mentioned above (do not go to the Upper Pool), and as you head northward, look for a sign on the right reading “roll no rocks, people below”, just after this take the faint trail on the left heading up and mostly west on the eastern flakes of Lady Mountain.  As you come to steeper sections watch for fading yellow painted arrows on the sandstone, and craved steps.  As you get higher, the painted arrows become more common, and typically larger.


By 11:30 am, Nov 3, we were at the Zion Lodge, and hiking toward Lady Mountain.  We made great time to about the ½ way point up the old cable route where we missed a right turn and instead scrambled up a south leading gully to a view of a wide canyon on the west side of Mt Moroni.   I was bummed to be off route and more so as  William started talking about heading down, eventually we did head down, but luckily at the bottom of the gully I noticed a trail heading up to the west, and soon saw yellow paint on a short 5th class move (so I knew we were back on route).  William hesitated to do the fifth class section, so I did it and dropped a cordelette to him, which he declined to use.  By now it was about 1:30 and I figured we had lost about 45 minutes due to our detour.  With the help of fading yellow arrows painted on the rock now and then, we approached the top running into a couple descending.  By 2:40 pm we reached the top, with its marker pointing out the neighboring peaks.  We spent 20 minutes on top, in the cold wind, and ate some snacks.  By 3:00 pm we were descending.  We crossed paths with one fella heading up and by 5:20 pm were back at the Lodge.  

William wanted to ride the shuttle north to Big Bend to show me Moonlight Buttress (which him and Danny had climbed and bivyed on the week before), so we did that then headed back to the visitor center and meet Danny.  We drove to the Kolob Reservoir road in Virgin and camped the night by the creek where I had stayed with the Middle-Singles in 2009. 

The morning of Nov 4 Danny and William said good-bye and headed out.  I soon followed debating if I should drive to Vegas to hike Mt. Charleston or not.  With a flip of a coin I decided not to and instead headed toward St. George when I saw a sign for Colorado City.  Curious about the polygamy town I decided to check it out. No big deal, just a lot of unfinished houses and buildings.  Drove the Smithsonian Butte road on the way back, and ended up in Rockville just outside Zion NP.  So I decided to see if one could sneak into the park on foot.  As it turned out the walk in entrance was unmanned so I got in for free but the shuttles were not running so the idea of hiking Hidden Canyon didn’t seem feasible.   Instead I hiked the 1.4 mile Watchman trail, and tried to talk a couple I met into doing the Hidden Canyon trail but they weren’t interested. When I got back to the Visitors Center it started to sprinkle so I decided to head home.  Ran into snow between Cedar City and Beaver, and I was home by 7:30 pm.  Another great trip!!

1.	DSC06645 – Looking down from the top of Pitch 1 on the Led By Sheep route on Aries Butte (6492 feet) at Daniel Lay and William DaBell. Nov 1, 2013 at 12:21 pm.
2.	646 – William on the second pitch.
3.	647 – The view southward from the top of Aries Butte (6492 feet).
4.	648 – My hair is getting long again.
5.	649 – Me on the top of Aries Butte.
6.	651 – William and Danny on top of Aries Butte.
7.	652 – Walter and Danny on top of Aries Butte.
8.	653 – Walter and Danny on top of Aries Butte.
9.	655 – Danny get ready to make the first rappel off Aries Butte.
10.	656 – Off Aries Butte and walking back out.
11.	657 – Danny leading P1 of Weeping Rock Chimneys (Left route) at 5:12 pm Nov 1, 2013.
12.	667 – Danny lead P1 on the north spur of Lady Mountain Chimney Sweep route Nov 2, 2013 at 1:35 pm.
13.	DSC06668 – William scrambling up the abandoned Lady Mountain Trail Nov 3, 2013 12:14 pm.
14.	669 - After missing a turn we paused on a vegetated ledge about 1:15 pm.  Viewing looking mostly north.
15.	674 – Looking down at the lodge from the vegetated ledge.
16.	675 – Back on route as shown by the painted yellow arrows.
17.	677 – Looking east.
18.	680, 82  & 85 – By 2:40 pm we reached the top of Lady Mountain, 6945 ft
19.	686 – Marker on peak points out neighboring peaks.
20.	687 – About 50 minutes into the descent, it was still a long long ways down!
21.	688 – Like Angels Landing at one time the Lady Mountain trail was officially sanction by the park and had protective chains attached to steel rods like this.  Many of these steel rods are still in place but with the chains removed as the trail is no longer maintained or advertise since the late 1970s. 
22.	689 & 90 – At one point (just after the left turn we missed going up) two 20 foot cordelletes tied together made a nice hand line making the descent of the fifth class section safer.
23.	691 -William with less than an hour of the descent left.
24.	692 – This slot ended with another 5th class down climb which apparently used to have a ladder up it before the route became unsanctioned by the Zion NP.
25.	694 – There were several steep, exposed sections like this.
26.	695 – Often on steep sections holds were chipped into the sandstone.
27.	696 – see 694.
28.	697 The North Spur (which Danny and I attempted Nov 2) is the rusty point on the far right.  The actual Lady Mountain Peak is the right most white one at 6945 ft.
29.	699 – Nov 4 I drove through the polygamy community of Colorado City.
30.	700 – Returning from Colorado City I took the Smithsonian Butte road to Rockville.
31.	701 – The view looking South West from the top of Watchman Trail.
