January 24, 2013 Rick Barrett picked me up at 3:00 pm and we drove to Ouray Colorado.  The drive took six hours, and we stayed at the River Edge Motel Room #30 (a very decent room).  Matt Long along with his mom (Ruth), and 2 of his young friends (Stephanie, and her secret boyfriend [some Kearl kid born in Cardston – Mike Kearls kid]) arrived after we did (in fact we didn’t see them until the next day).  
January 25
We were up by 7:30 am and the first ones at the motel breakfast at 8:00 am.  Following breakfast we knocked on Matt’s door, and found they were still sleeping.  We told them we’d watch for them at the Ouray Ice Park at Uncompahgre Gorge (pronounced "Un-com-PAH-gray"). 
At the park we hike up to the area just above the Upper Bridge.  I’ve read stuff calling this area “Pic o the Vic”, “Upper Bridge”, “Alcove” and even the “School Room” – I believe “Alcove” area is the correct name.  
We started on a climb at two bolts in a rock anchor on the south side (climbers left) of a sort of arête, on a route that might be called Verminator WI4.  I climbed first and took a chuck of ice to my mustache area that split the skin, and bleed a fair amount.  Rick climbed it next and found he didn’t like his boots. 
Next we anchored to a tree just north of the rock anchor and I dropped in upsetting some local climbing women who was quite a ways to the south of wear I was rappelling.  I mostly ignored her.  Once she was up her route, I then climbed, and I think this climb was called Duncan’t Delight WI5 and it was really long and fun – the floor of the canyon at the both was quite narrow maybe 15 to 20 feet, and while I waited to climb I had to watch out for falling ice from the bothered woman.  After I climbed Rick decided to return to the motel to switch boots.  I walked over to the Five Fingers area to wait for him, and got the rope out for the In The Pink route.  
No sooner did Rick leave the parking area upon returning then Matt and group pulled in. From my location I could see the parking lot so I hollered at Matt and he saw and heard me.  Before they arrived to the Five Fingers area, Rick rappelled down (after I had I gotten on the rope, and looked down informing him that it wouldn’t reach the bottom).  In deed the rope wasn’t long enough to belay from below and Rick had had to stop at the base of an ice ramp variation of the In the Pink route.  
Just as I was set to drop in Matt and company arrived.  He introduced his group and then I dropped in stopping at the end of the rope where Rick waited. He untied, so I could pull through some rope to tie in.  He had to climbed up to the other end of the rope, tie in, and then continue climbing “In the Pink”.  I followed wearing my pack, having worn it down thinking I’d belay from the bottom.  Matt dropped his rope on me as I climbed up so I realized we’d have to go climb elsewhere.  
Once I got down with the climb we chatted for a bit with everyone and then headed up stream stopping at the Scottish Gullies. We dropped the rope down what ended up being a very simple climb maybe named the UK Garage.  Rick climbed it without ice tools and I did it with one tool. While there we ate the PBJ sandwiches I had made that morning and then walked further upstream ending up in New Funtier as the other areas where crowded.  
At New Funtier we looped the rope around this big chuck of ice above the Pocahontas (?) route.  Rick was getting ready to abseil down when this German guy came over to put in an ice screw to direct his rope.  I told him he should to wait until we were done, but Rick worked with him, and it turned out okay.  This route had a lot of rock showing and would have made nice photographs from below.  From the Pocahontas area we moved south (upstream) to the next set of anchors (possible the “GN’R” route area).  I ended up climbing this one three times with some variations.  Rick did it without tools, and also free solo (no rope).  From there we moved to a tree one route up from where we started the day (just after the start of the trestle), which might be named Flamenco, and each climbed the route twice.  Rick forgot to rappel in with his tools on his second go, so he just climbed out without tools!
That evening we walked from the motel up Main Street to Buen Tiempo Mexican restaurant which had dollar bills stuck to the ceiling. Our German friend came in as we were eating, but he didn’t recognize us. I got the Burrito Grande which was a bit too spicy.  After dinner we stopped at the local gear shop (Ouray Mountain Sports?), and saw a lot of familiar faces from the ice park.  Before 7pm we were back at the hotel.  Rick was fast asleep by 8 pm as he was fighting a cold but I watch TV till 9pm then read “The Trapper” by Frank Globe until 10 pm.  Matt and group had stayed in and eaten in their room.

January 26
Again we were up by 7:30 am and the first ones in for breakfast.  Matt joined us for breakfast but told us the rest of his gang was still asleep.  We said we’d watch for them at the ice park (as it turned out we didn’t end up seeing them). 
 It was lightly snowing big flakes at the park.  As we crossed the lower bridge we saw some nice climbs on the west side, below that bridge that were free.  Rick rappelled in thinking to try an untouching pillar to climbers left of the Popsicle route.  I had him on an auto block belay, and when he decided to not climb it, having climbed up 30 feet or so to right below the untouching pillar, he asked me to lower him.  It’s not easy to lower when on auto block, I tried it with a sling through the secondary loop but it went too fast , and I later learned, so suddenly that Rick dropped a tool.  I had to switch it out for Ricks Grigri 2.  This could have been a bad situation, as I could not see Rick at all, and we could not hear each other that easily either.  Alas, we got lucky and he got off the climb unscathed.  
Back on the ground, Rick hiked out of the gully and we moved the rope to a set of small juniper twin trees, from which we each climbed the Popsicle route twice.  
Luck was again on our side as we noticed the Tooth Decay route at the east end of the lower bridge was still open, which we hurried over to and claimed.  For a belay we tied the rope to two of the bridges guard rail posts.  With the snow falling down we didn’t take any photos but this climb is very picturesque, and I would say was my favorite climb of the entire trip.  Again we each climbed it twice.  
Next we moved down gully hoping to get on the Picnic route by the gazebo, but it was taken.  By now the snow was mostly rain, so we stopped for lunch inside the picnic shelter and while eating PBJ sandwiches noticed a nice looking, and free, line on the Shithouse wall, namely “Tucks”.  Again we were fortunate to get on it before anyone else.  I went first and found it to be tough at WI5, and I took a chuck of ice to the nose while climbing it, but it was good enough that we both climbed it twice.  
Once we got that done, the picnic route opened up and we claimed it.  It had a broken pillar, which formed a small overhang near the top of the 25 m (80 foot) climb.  My first go on it, I had the flow and went over the overhang without a hitch, my second time it still went smooth but not as suave.  Both of us were soaking wet by this time (and the end of the rope had landed in the creek on several of our rappels) so we decided to call it a day.  18 climbs (pitches) in two days, with many of the routes being 130+ feet (40 m) long.  
We got back to the motel before Matt and company. After we laid out our gear to dry, and I showered, I call their room and found them in.  We arranged to go out to dinner together again to Buen Tiempo.  After dinner we all went to the Hot Spring Pool.  The Pool had three different soaking sections with temperatures ranging from 88 to 105 degrees. The crystal-clear water interestingly was free from the strong smell of sulfur typical of hot springs.  Back at the room we caught the movie Grand Torino in progress. By 10 pm the movie was over and we tried enough to fall asleep.  

January 27
It was raining out and we’d both had enough climbing, so following breakfast (where for the third day in row we were the first to arrive) we headed straight out of town having packed the car before going in for breakfast.  It was raining in Price so we didn’t bother stopping at the Dirtcicle either. By 2:30 pm we were at my place in Orem.  
The three nights at the motel cost $216, and the gas cost about $116.  Split two ways that came out to $166 each, add in the two dinners in Ouray, and a sandwich on the drive down, and $12 for the hot spring means the trip cost approximately $225 each.

