November 23, 2013 I met Mike Hylland at the SLC airport and we flew to Dallas Texas.  From Dallas we flew to Mexico City arriving around 11pm (central time) a little bit later than scheduled.  We had a room booked at the Ramada Inn, but we had to find the shuttle bus.  A fellow with a cell phone called for us, and soon the shuttle arrived (likely one someone else called for as it was there immediately, and had other passengers).  The room had a tile floor and two double beds.  The hotel included a very nice buffet breakfast.

The next morning, after breakfast, we met Alex Leone and Saurabh Sardeshpande, two fellows from Seattle, WA who would be the other half of our Orizaba and Itza team.  Saurabh had contacted me as a result of a SummitPost ad I had posted requesting partners for a 2014 Denali Expedition.  I suggested to him that we first do Orizaba before attempting Denali.  He agreed, and asked that his friend Alex join us.  Mike I also met through SummitPost, and I had attempted Gilbert Peak with him back in February.

I had arranged with a business called Servimont out of Tlachichuca, Pue, Mexico  to pick us up from the Ramada Inn November 24 and shuttle us to Tlachichuca where we would spend the night, and then the next day be driven to Orizaba base camp.  The driver (Ro-heal-e-o) was to pick us up at noon, but he arrived a little bit early, and Saurabh was not quite ready to go.  Shortly after noon we were on our way.  I didn’t time it, but we arrived in Tlachichuca before 4pm.  En route we stopped at the Bodega Aurrera (owned by Wal-Mart) in the city of Puebla to pick up some groceries leaving there just after 2pm. 

In Tlachichuca Senior Reyes, the owner of Servimont, showed us around his property, a 200 year old soap factory converted to an Orizaba climbers lodge.  We were the only customers at the lodge that day. Before dinner, we each paid him $5900 pesos for his shuttle services and lodging.  After that we had time to walk to the Internet café before 5:30 pm dinner where Alex checked the weather forecast.  After dinner we sorted gear in preparation for being dropped off the next day at Orizaba base camp located at 14,000 feet.

November 25, breakfast was served at 9am, following which we loaded up the 1986 Dodge pick-up and by 10:30 am we left the converted soap factory heading to base camp. Our driver for this shuttle was named Hoe-la.  At 11:15 am we stopped in the village of Hidalgo to take a few photos of Orizaba.  From Hidalgo the road became dirt, and occasionally rough or steep enough to warrant 4X4.  At 12:24 pm we arrived at base camp.  We each tipped the driver $50 pesos and said good-bye.

Inside the large hut, were two separate American teams, both who were resting after having summited that morning.  The ones from Colorado had skied, which was of interest to Mike and Alex who planned to do the same.  The other team was a couple of Indian fellows from Michigan (?).  They were more talkative and told me up and down had taken them 9 hours including 45 minutes on the peak.  After talking I went out and found the natural water source, and the smaller hut.  I suggested we stay in the smaller hut but Alex thought we might get the big one to ourselves as the other climbers were just waiting for their shuttle.

Just before 2pm  Mike and decided to go for an acclimatization hike promising to be back by 4pm thus giving Alex and Saurabh two hours of daylight to also do an acclimatization hike. By splitting up we didn’t have to leave our gear unattended.  When we left I told Alex to use his best judgment about staying in the big hut or moving to the smaller one.  Mike and I hiked to about 15,600 feet turning around about 3:15 pm.  When we got back down at 4pm we found Alex and Saurabh had relocated to the smaller hut, as a group of over 20 Germans and Austrians had moved into the main hut.  Soon after Alex and Saurabh set out on their acclimatization hike, while I decided to set up my tent, and followed that with cooking dinner. When it turned dark at 6:15 pm and Alex and Saurabh had not returned Mike and I started to wonder what was taking them so long.  By 6:30 pm we started up the aqueduct, in the dark, looking for them, and within a half hour we noticed their head lamps coming down, but still quit high up for that late hour.  Must have been close to 7:30 pm when they returned to camp, they had also hiked to about 15,600 feet.

That first night at 14,000 ft, the night of November 25, was quite rough.  I had a headache, and kept waking up out of breath.  The next morning, when the headache hadn’t gone away following breakfast, I thought perhaps I should rest more before heading up on another acclimatization hike. As the other 3 headed out on another acclimatization hike, I changed my mind about resting, and packed a bag for a hike, then hide my more value items in the rocks.  Walking alone, I was up to 15,400 feet within 50 minutes where I caught up with the other three who had left about 40 minutes before me. The four of us continued up to the nose of the Jamapa Glacier arriving at 16,200 feet around 12:15 pm – I had to really slow my pace to accommodate the other three.  At the glacier Mike and Alex stashed their skies, and I ate some lunch.  By 12:45 Saurabh and I started down, around 15,400 ft we stop where Mike and Alex planned to stash their ski boots, and about the time Mike and Alex arrived Saurabh and I were ready to continue our descent.  Shortly we encountered Paul, an American guide from Portland, hauling up a stash to 15,400 ft for a high camp.  Paul was guiding a group from the UK, two of whom we passed and chatted with as we continued down.

Returning to camp, we found the Germans/Austrians had left, and had been replaced in the main hut with the UK group as well as a deaf group (presumable from the USA) and four guys in two tents from Colorado.  We chatted with the Colorado guys, and found out they were making their summit bid the next morning (as they had acclimatized on Itza), same as we planned to do, and they thought they could summit and return in just six hours a number I tried to tell them was not big enough.

November 27, I woke up at 12:30 am, and by 2 am was starting up the aqueduct with Mike.  Alex and Saurabh left by 1:50 am, but I had taken a few extra minutes to again hide some of my gear in the rocks.   Mike was going slow, but I soon past Saurabh and caught up to Alex.  At 15,400 ft Alex located his ski boots, and I put on my crampons and gaiters, then waited for Mike and Saurabh. It got cold waiting, so before Mike and Saurabh were ready Alex and I headed off.  I no sooner got warm and removed my down jacket then Alex wanted to wait for Mike and Saurabh.  I tried to wait several times but got cold when I did, so finally I yelled down to Alex that I was going to continue up, and one of the guys for Colorado (who had now caught up to us) relayed my message.  I paused again, near where the guys had stashed their skis, and Jason (from Colorado) caught up to me.  The wind was hollowing.  Jason and I had a good lead on everyone else so we paired up and headed into the wind and up and across the Jamapa Glacier.  Several times as we climbed, one or the other of us, mentioned that we were almost there, and that we would be on top for the sunrise, in reality the peak was much further, and it wasn’t time 7:15 am that we reached it.

Topping out on the crater rim at around 7:00 am, was amazing.  First I smelled the sulphur, then out of breath looked across and into this giant hole.  It was freezing cold, but felt so amazing.  Seeing that sight revived me from the physical struggle of climbing the steep snow, at high elevation, in the strong winds to get there.  I made up my mind to pause for Jason so we could summit at the same time.  We had to walk NE(?) around the crater and up to the high point, a few feet from the summit marker (a cross, of course) I waited for Jason and together we reached the highest point in Mexico (N. Americans third highest point).  We were above a sea of clouds, and in all directions the views were clear.  I don’t know the temperature, but it was cold and I put on every layer I brought – I had an apple in my pack which froze, and the water bottles formed ice as well.  Jason took a few photographs of me and within 30 minutes the other 3 guys from Colorado arrived.  They all hugged, and then Jason gave me a hug.  It was a proud moment to be up there.

Around 8:00 am, I announced that I was heading down.  I located a more direct descent route, and started down, soon Jason past me. Before long I encountered Alex, then Mike, and finally Saurabh all moving very slowly.  I encouraged each to continue up reminding them that they had all day.  

Near the end of the glacier, I started walking with the other 3 guys from Colorado.  We chatted for a while and then I moved ahead only to have them soon pass me when I decided to stop near the previous days ski stash for some food and water.  Off and on, throughout the descent we encountered each other.  We all arrived back at base camp at 10:30 am - an eight and a half hour summit day, including 45 minutes on top.  Jason had made it down at least an hour before us, and he had started up at 3:00 am, so he almost reached his six hour goal – very fast indeed.

I had eaten and drunken very little through the whole climb, and I was surprisingly not hunger.  First thing I did was to retrieve my hidden gear, and I had to do it quickly as a group of young Mexicans arrived and I suspected them of being there to steal gear.  While they were around I kept an eye on the small hut as well as my tent.  I cleaned my tent, and sorted gear, as sleep wasn’t forthcoming.  The Colorado guys packed up, and gave me a freeze dried dinner, as well as about 5 liters of water.  Others arrived at the main hut, and I decided to head over to retrieve food I had hanging up in the shed on the side of the main hut.  As I neared the hut  I notice the Dodge pick-up from Servimont, and was surprised as Senor Reyes had told us he had no scheduled drop offs for Wednesday.  The driver say me and asked if I was Walter, as we struggled to communicate him in Spanish, me in English, a fellow for Colorado who had just arrived offer to translate.  The driver wanted to take our team back to Tlachichuca, and I explained that the other three were still on the mountain, but that I thought they would make it back by 2 or 3 pm.  He offered to wait.

I spoke with the group of three from Colorado – two guys and a girl, as they wanted to know about my climb. Then I retrieved my food, and returned to my camp and packed up my gear anticipating leaving soon.  By 2pm, no one but Pour (the driver) and I were left at base camp.  Around that same time I noticed two skiers on the glacier, and I couldn’t believe it – it was just too late in the day.  I wondered if someone else besides Alex and Mike and taken up skis, and I also wondered if Mike and Alex were skiing laps.  I managed to communicate this with the driver, and then at 2:30 I saw the skiers again, and later found out that the driver did to.  By 3:00 pm, I accepted the fact that the skiers were from my team and that they were hours away from returning to base camp.  Pour radioed Senor Reyes, and he decided to have Pour wait until 4pm.  Then Pour hiked up to the high camp looking for them, and returned just after 4pm having learned that no one at high camp had seen them.  I removed my gear from the truck, and put it in the big shed, and Pour left, leaving me as the only one at basecamp – which I really liked even though it felt strange.  I moved into the big hut, cleaned it, and made some dinner.  Once it got dark I started watching for descending headlamps, but it wasn’t till after 7pm that I same them.  I put my light on flash mode, to signal them, and soon they returned the signal.  At 7:45 pm I started up the aqueduct to meet them, and I first encountered Alex whom I returned to the small hut with.  By 8pm all three were down – 18 hours on the mountain – likely a new record!  I made sure they didn’t need anything, and then I returned to the big hut and to my tent that I had set up inside it when the mice came out at dark.

Next morning I got up and started to organize my gear, as I had packed in a hurry the day before, and had just poured hot water into a freeze dried meal when I heard a truck approaching.  I was shocked to find it was Pour in the Dodge, as he had told me the day before that he would pick us up at 2pm and here it was only 9 am.  I greeted him then woke up the others to tell them.  I got my bags packed, and was finishing breakfast when Mike came over to tell me Saurabh was suffering from AMS.  Luckily the driver had come early, as descent is the cure for that.  Just before 10:30 everyone was packed up, and started the drive back to Tlachichuca. 

It was really nice of Pour to pick us up early, as once we got pack to Tlachichuca we had time for a shower, followed by lunch, and a nap before the two other teams picked up in the afternoon arrived.  Senor Reyes insisted that his staff make us lunch, even going so far as to tell us that we wouldn’t be able to buy lunch in town as no one eats lunch (yeah right!), and then he over charged us for it!  After lunch Senor Reyes, who is actually a medical doctor, tested each of our oxygen saturation levels.  Not surprisingly Saurabhs was low, and somewhat surprisingly so was Mikes, but both Alex and I were at 98 and 99 percent respectively (meaning we were acclimatized, and Saurabh and Mike were not).  Dr. Reyes, earlier had pointed out Mikes swollen tissue under his eyes, which he called facial epidema , as a clue that he might not have been acclimatized.  

After our nap, when the other two teams arrived (the UK team, and the Colorado team), Alex, Mike and I took a walk around Tlachichuca.  There really wasn’t much too see, with the biggest land mark being a Catholic Church in the town square.  All the little shops, made of concrete reminded me of Korea but more run down.

After dinner, we had to finalize our plans for the rest of trip – which we needed to change - as Dr. Reyes had told us Saurabh should not even go as high as base camp.  We decided that Mike, Alex, and I would do Itza in one big day, and that Saurabh should wait for us in a motel in Ammecameca.   Doing Itza on that schedule then freed up two days in our original schedule.  With the two free days, we decided we would like to go see some Pyramids – so we tried to work that out with Senor Reyes.  Senor Reyes was not forthcoming with information, and was just interested in making more money off us.  In the end we agreed to each pay him another $500 pesos, even though we weren’t asking for anymore of the drivers time,  and were going maybe 20 miles out of the way.  Anyway, the plan was be shuttled to La Joya on Friday, with the driver and Saurabh then going to Ameccamecca to wait for us, and returning Saturday afternoon to pick us up. Then we’d all stay in Amecameca in a motel, and Sunday the driver would take us to Teohuicana to the pyramids.  Sunday we’d get a motel near the pyramids and Monday the driver would return us to the Ramada inn.  With that plan Doctor Reyes cautioned me to keep an eye on Mike.  

Thursday evening, as we were working out our plans, imagine my surprise when Rohealeo came and got me to answer a phone call from Ana.  She called to make to find out how Orizaba had gone and since it was US Thanksgiving she was at Almas and had all the kids talk to me.  It was nice.
Friday morning, November 29, 2013 at breakfast, Saurabh announced that his toes had turned black and he asked Doctor Reyes to have a look at them.  The doctor said it was frost nip, and told him to expect a month for them to heal.  That sealed the deal, that Saurabh would not be attempting Itza.
