November 29, 2013 after breakfast, we loaded the van and head off to Itza.  Senor Reyes caught a ride with us to Puebla.  We dropped him off at a mall where we purchased food supplies.  Rogelio drove back roads (dirt in parts) from Puebla to Paso De Cortez where we arrived around 3:30 pm and purchased our permits to the park.  By 5pm we reached La Joyita, where Mike, Alex, and I were dropped off.  While we were getting our gear out, some kids from Spain stopped to ask us for water, and some other kids passed by in a Volkswagen that was having troubles running, but by the time we were ready, around 5pm, we were the only ones left at La Joyita. It was an interesting feeling to be dropped off in a remote place in Mexico with no one else around.

We looked around for a place to camp. Alex wanted to hike further in, but I wanted to check out the buildings at La Joyita, as I had decided to go without a tent.  We settled on the main shack at La Joyita, as it had two separate picnic tables under a falling down awning that Mike and I could sleep on – Alex would stay in his tent.  We had arranged for Rogelio and Saurabh to pick us up the next day at 3pm, and we had heard the hike was a 12 hour event.  We had time to make dinner before the sunset.  Another group arrived soon after we took possession of the hut.  Light skinned Mexicans from Puebla, likely rich as they had nice cars including a Mercedes SUV, might have been family as they covered a wide age range. The formed a circle with their cars, and camped in the center.  We stopped by and said hello, but language was a barrier.

With the sun down, as we prepared to retire, this Mexican kid, 19 years old, showed up, and laid out his stuff inside the hut, right where we were.  We learned his name was Miguel (Michael).  About the time we laid down, Mike and I on the picnic tables, Alex in his tent, more people showed up – a large group who camped in the parking lot next to the Puebla crew, and a car at the north end of our hut.  We were unsure how they were driving in, as the gate was supposed to be closed after 5pm.  The big group was there to drink and party, so sleep was not something we enjoyed.  

By 1:30 am, November 30, 2013, I got up, followed by Mike and then Alex.  Soon many people started to arrive, one group in a car, the rest on foot and we learned they had hiked in from Paso De Cortez where the gate is.  By 3 am, we had hidden the gear we didn’t want to carry, and we were hiking following a GPS track Alex had on his phone.  I don’t trust GPS, and as typical it got us off track, likely costing us 45 minutes.  But eventually we made it back on to the main path.  I had gotten next to no sleep both November 28 & 29, and that combined with drinking solstic and hiking in the dark but me into a very surreal state – and I kept telling Mike and Alex that I felt like I was floating.  It felt so strange that I even had thoughts that I had died (weird, I know).  Around 6 am before sunrise, we reached the silver Grupo De Los Cien Hut at over 15,400 ft where we were shocked to run into Miguel (the kid from the hut).  Here Alex switched into his mountaineering boots and Miguel and I went to watch the sunrise.  I was pleasantly shocked to learn we could see Orizaba off to the east.  I asked Miguel “Montana, Nombre” and he said Orizaba!

With the sun up, at 6:30 am, I began to read the route description very loud outside the hut, and Alex told me to be quite as folks were still asleep inside the hut.  Following that we stared up a scree slope toward the unseen dilapidated ruins of the Luis Mendez hut.  Miguel had now joined us, and would remain with us for the rest of the adventure.  With the daylight, the floating sensation that had been troubling me departed.  As we left the silver hut Alex insisted on going left, but I felt better following orange dots spray painted on the occasional rock, so we parted ways temporally.  Miguel and Mike shared my desire to stay on the main trail.  I hiked with Miguel and we would stop now and then and wait for Mike.  On one of our stops, I met up with this Mexican guide Rupert (or something like that) and his Texas client.  R spoke English, and I was shocked when R had heard of me.  Somehow he knew we had stayed at Servimont, that Ho-la had driven us to Orizaba basecamp, and he informed me that I, as a strong climber (his words) should be able to make the true summit of Itza from the hut ruins in 1.5 hours. He also knew our driver Rogelio, and he told me Rogelio would be early to pick us up.  I guess the climbing community in Mexico talk amongst themselves!  

It was about 7:45 am when were reached the hut ruins at about 5000m (16,400 ft) at the peak known as the Rodilla (knee).  Itza is in the shape of a sleeping woman, and as one climbs it he crosses over the various body parts.  The 17,159 ft summit is located before the head (cabeza). It was a strenuous hike up scree to go from the silver hut to the knee, and I figured not many of the casual hikers would make it that far, so I decided to stash my sleeping bag there.  I had carried it, not wanting it to get stolen, if someone found our cache near La Joyita.  Rupert and his client reached the knee just after I hid my sleeping bag, and were turning around at that point. 

At the hut ruins Mike decided he wanted to put on his AT ski boots which he had brought to hike in, crazy I know.  I checked the trail ahead and told him not to waste the time with the boots, as the route was non-technical and mixed snow and rocks, which would not require crampons.  But he put them on anyways as Miguel, Alex and I headed toward the panza (belly).  It was about 8:15 am when I left the hut ruins, and I cached a water bottle below it and was soon joined by Alex and Miguel.

Mike was so slow in his AT boots, and I tried to wait for him, but decided I didn’t want to lose my summit chance waiting around, so I jogged and caught up to Miguel and Alex before the belly.  At the belly you drop down quite a bit and then head up to the south summit.  Below the south summit Alex, Miguel, and I dropped our packs, and pulled out our ice axes, and set off nice and light for the true summit, that must have been about 9:15 am.  It was a longer haul to the true summit, up and over the south summit, then I expected but at 10:15 am we (Alex, Miguel, and me) reached it, and were the first ones there that day. I lead most of the way, and as I typically do, I stopped shy of the summit so all of us could summit at the same time.  Returning we detoured over to the west summit, and watched Mike reach the true summit.  

Once we got back to our packs I was eager to get back to the knee to get my water and sleeping bag, so I told Alex I would meet them there.  I stopped at the belly for a few moments to chat with the Pueblo crew about the partiers who kept us up all night.  It was after 12pm by the time I arrive back at the knee and retrieved my things.  Mike, Alex, and Miguel all arrive around 12:30 pm and we started down again.  I thought returning to La Joyita by 3pm seemed unlikely, but hoped we’d be close.  Just before we left the knee, two white English speaking Mexicans came along on their way down.  They had been on the west peak as we were on the true summit, and had been on the true summit with Mike.  At one point, as we made our way down the scree to the silver hut, I followed them, but they warned me they were off route and told me to head more east.  They cliffed-out, and ended up at the silver hut before them, at which point I bummed some water off them, and told them they should watch Touching the Void before  a trip to Peru they told me they were planning.

It was insane how many people were at the silver hut.  I had no idea where they would all be staying as the hut likely doesn’t sleep move than 20.  From the hut down to La Joyita took about 2 hours, and we arrived at 3:30 pm.  The amount of people heading up that section of the trail as we headed down was dumbfounding, and again we had to wonder where they would all camp.

Rogelio and Saurabh were waiting for us. And Rogelio had made “tortas” (sandwiches) for us, which he offered to us with a coke.  We were exhausted and the food was perfect!  We gave a ride to Miguel down to Amecameca, and said our goodbyes.  Then we headed to the Hotel-Motel Rincon Del Bosque located along highway  115., where Rogelio and Saurabh had stayed, and I shared a room with Mike.  The water and electricity were off, so we couldn’t clean-up, and we had to go out for dinner before they got them on.  After a shower I took a Tylenol PM and hoped I could sleep through Mikes’ snoring.  Around 3pm I woke to his snoring several times and woke him by saying “no snoring”.  Next morning he informed me that I had been talking in my sleep saying “no snoring”.  I just said, “yea, I said that”.

December 1, 2013 – The four of us paid for Rogelio’s breakfast in repayment for yesterday’s sandwiches.  After breakfast Rogelio drove us to Teotihuacan.  First he took to see how tequila was made.  The Teotihuacans would cut a hole in the cactus, and it would produce 4 liters of honey-water for 52 days before dying.  The honey-water ferments in one day into wine.  They didn’t actually show us how tequila was made but I’d seen a video about it before, how they cut a cactus down to a pineapple shape and then process that.  Following that we went to the pyramids.  We were approached by Miguel Velazquez and offered a tour, so we hired him.  He is an archeologist who had worked that site, so he was very knowledgeable.  We spend about 3 hours there, climbed both the Sun and the Moon pyramids.

After the pyramids Rogelio drove us into Mexico City and dropped us at the Edison Hotel, and we arranged to leave most of our stuff in the van and have him return Dec 2 at 7pm to get us and finish his duties by dropping us back at the Ramada Inn.  The hotel was dirty and allowed paying by the hour.  Mike and I got our own rooms, and Alex and Saurabh shared one.  When we went to get dinner, we saw a hooker (likely).  Had dinner at a pizza place, and then wandered back to the hotel, as Alex stopped at a stand to get a taco.  At the hotel I prompted a chair under the door handle, shower, then went to bed and watch English music videos on TV till I feel asleep (not very restful).  I coughed all-night, as though the room had asbestos or something irritating in it, so I got up early and walked around the block surprised how many people were about at 7am.  At the bakery across the street from the hotel I got a muffin.  Back at the room I waited for 8:30 am to arrive as that was our arranged meeting time.  It wasn’t till almost 9am that Saurabh was ready.  

As it turned out, museums are closed on Monday’s in Mexico City so we just walked past them, and stopped in a few Churches.  We stopped for street tacos in the morning and at a bakery for lunch.  By afternoon, 2pm,  we were bored, so we rested in a park for a while and some teenage girls approached Mike and asked if they could ask him some questions in English for a class assignment.  I was glad they didn’t approach me.  

After the park we thought we’d go see a movie, to kill time, but the times didn’t work out, so we ended up at a café where Mike, Saurabh and Alex ate (I elected to wait for dinner).  Following their second lunch, we located an Argentine restaurant that Alex insisted on going to, as it had high on-line reviews.  It was expensive and all about beef which I’m not that into, but it was okay.  We arrived back at the Edison hotel lobby before 7pm, so Alex wanted to go get dessert, and I reluctantly tagged along.  Rogelio got stuck in traffic and arrived around 7:30 pm to take us to the Ramada Inn next to the airport.  On the drive I dozed off on the back seat.  We all tipped him generously, and I quickly checked in and was happy to be in a nice clean room.  I was tired enough that Mike’s snoring wasn’t a big concern that night.  Mike was so excited to watch a Seattle Seahawks football game on TV that he didn’t even shower.  I sorted my gear, getting it ready for the flight, as he watched football.

See a map of our travels at:  https://maps.google.com/maps?saddr=Mexico+City+International+Airport+(MEX),+Capitan+Carlos+Le%C3%B3n,+Pe%C3%B1%C3%B3n+de+Los+Ba%C3%B1os,+Venustiano+Carranza,+Ciudad+de+Mexico,+D.F.,+Mexico&daddr=Tlachichuca,+Mexico+to:18.9695068,-98.1849875+to:19.0118816,-98.3328622+to:Paso+de+Cort%C3%A9s,+Mexico+to:Amecameca,+Mexico+to:Teotihuac%C3%A1n+de+Arista,+Mexico+to:Hotel+Edison,+Jos%C3%A9+Mar%C3%ADa+Iglesias,+Tabacalera,+Cuauht%C3%A9moc,+Mexico&hl=en&ie=UTF8&sll=19.329287,-98.289185&sspn=1.269941,2.705383&geocode=FU-SKAEdOEgY-iFE0rph9X7QAimfIpO9d_zRhTFE0rph9X7QAg%3BFXCjIwEdN4Ax-inZJQ9IQT_FhTEVz2SBcG-rrA%3BFaJzIQEd5dAl-impVE2gBb_PhTHwtLGbO2CH7g%3BFSkZIgEdQo8j-ilJsRbOIsjPhTHMxtUNx7duPw%3BFWw9IwEdZMQe-imVGYmasTDOhTHHkY0h5iQwHw%3BFXOyIwEdeRwd-ilpxOw-izzOhTE075wWH-BK2A%3BFfpwLAEd34Ab-inJ3QFO-erRhTHaZHEUI9V-xw%3BFdCXKAEdDgMX-iF_H-Xi4A6gGimzkckj0vjRhTF_H-Xi4A6gGg&oq=Edison&mra=ls&via=2,3&t=m&z=9

Next morning after breakfast, I wandered around the neighborhood hoping to find the treats Ana had asked me to pick up for her.  But all the small stores told me to get them at the airport.  After check in at the airport I found the candies, and over paid for them!  At the Dallas airport we cleared customs/immigration, and Saurabh a non-USA citizen took forever.  After waiting for him we just had time to find our gate, and get a sandwich, before boarding the plane.

Returned to SLC around 8:30 pm, to a big snowstorm, as such Ana had come to pick me up with Jacob and Alma (Jacob drove).  I offered them gas money, but they didn’t want it.  I was very happy to see Ana, and back at my house she feed me and kissed me!

1.	The park office at Paso De Cortez. November 29, 2013.  Here we obtained our park permits, and then Rogelio drove us to La Joyita.
2.	Itza, the Sleeping Woman Mountain, as seen from La Joyita.
3.	Park sign.
4.	Park sign.
5.	The hut with the broken awning which we used as our “basecamp”. Mike and Alex at 5:45 pm making dinner.
6.	Walter and Alex under the awning. I would attempt to sleep on the same picnic table, whereas Mike would sleep on the one he is at in photo 5, and Alex would stay in his tent.
7.	Alex’s tent, the hut, with Itza behind.
8.	Alex’s tent, the hut, with Itza behind.
9.	At the saddle just before the silver hut at over 15,400 ft Orizaba could be seen in the sunrise.
10.	At the saddle just before the silver hut at over 15,400 ft Orizaba could be seen in the sunrise.
11.	The silver Grupo De Los Cien Hut at over 15,400 ft where I read the route description very loudly!
12.	A big cross just below the Luis Mendez hut ruins at the knee (rodilla) around 5000 meters with active volcano Popo behind me.
13.	This plaque was at, or near the hut ruins, and talks about the trilogy volcanos of Orizaba (Citlatepetl), Popo, and Itza.
14.	Alex with Popo behind him.
15.	Walter and Alex about 8:30 am.
16.	Popo is mostly south of Itza.
17.	One of those must be Orizaba, likely the furthest one on the horizon.
18.	Looking back (southish) toward the Panza (Belly) (I think) en route to the south summit.
19.	Alex and Miguel, see 18 desc.
20.	Miguel an Alex working their way up to the south summit about 9:30am
21.	Miguel approach south summit with Popo behind (notice the smoke coming out of Popo).
22.	Alex with the south summit behind him, crossing a crater like area, en route to the true summit.
23.	The three of us, Walter, Miguel, and Alex where the first to summit Itza Nov 30, 2013.  About 10:20 am.
24.	Alex and Miguel on the summit.
25.	Alex and Walter on the summit.
26.	Walter on the summit with the view North behind him.
27.	Alex
28.	Alex and Miguel leaving the summit, Orizaba off to the east behind them.
29.	The crater, with active Popo behind.
30.	Walter on the descent, with active Popo behind.
31.	10:51 pm, Mike and the two white English speaking Mexicans on the summit.
32.	Miguel descending the south summit at 11:07 am.
33.	Looking back at the west and south summits, the true summit can’t be seen, as I return to the Panza (belly).
34.	Miguel and Alex working their way back to the Panza.
35.	Back at the Knees area at the Luis Mendez hut ruins just before the arrival of Mike, Miguel and Alex around 12:30pm.
36.	Alex, Miguel, and Mike at the Luis Mendez hut ruins.
37.	The descent from the hut ruins to the silver hut is mostly on scree, but here we had to negotiate a 4th class section.
38.	Looking back up the scree field from never the silver hut.
39.	A view from the van as we left La Joyita.
