October 5th I left Provo at 6:15 am and drove to the Nevada California border, mostly via highway 6, to the Queens Mine trailhead of Boundary Peak.  Boundary Peak is the highest point in Nevada at 13,140 feet.  It took about 9 hours to get there, and so I had plenty of time on my hands as I planned to camp at the trailhead and climb the peak the next morning.  However after sitting for 9 hours my back was sore and I needed a walk so I wandered up the trail for about 50 minutes to just shy of where the Trail Canyon route joins the Queens Mine route, and in so doing I got a good feel for what I would be up against the next morning.  I didn’t see anyone else on the trail, but I thought I might as there was a van parked one switch back down from the trailhead.  

When I got back to my car, and moved it to a flatter spot to camp, a pick-up with two brothers in it pulled up.  By now it was about 5:45 pm, and they talked as though they were going to climb the peak that evening, and then drive to the Mount Whitney trailhead to do the JMT (John Muir Trail) to its peak the next day.  As they prepared to go, we noticed a couple other hikers coming down.  So the brothers set off and soon after the other hikers got down to my camp.  One gave me his card explaining he had lost his phone and asking me to contact him should I find it.  Then they wandered over to their van.

I proceeded with cooking my diner and arranging my SUV to sleep in the back, and before dark the brothers returned, having come to their senses.  Soon they left and I was again all alone much to my liking.  Soon it was dark, and I realized how tired I was from the early morning so I set my alarm for 5:10 am planning to start hiking by 6:15 the next morning, and it was then I realized I was no longer in the Mountain Time Zone and that it was really only 7:30 pm.  Nonetheless I was soon asleep, but I woke up at 10 pm (Pacific time zone), then again at 2 am, 3am, 4 am, and 5 am.

I had planned to start out in the dark, arriving at where I had stopped the day before at around sunrise, but with the time change, I was able to turn off my headlamp at 6:15 am as I left camp.  I was pleased to have the natural light.  

The hike to Boundary Peak consists of three sections.  First the ridge to the intersection of the Trail Canyon trail and the Queens mine trail, which took about 1 hour and 5 minutes to cover.  Next is a steep section up loose scree, with a dusting of snow on it, to the top of a false summit.  This section needed about 1 hour to cover it.  The last section is from the false summit to the true summit, and it steepens up even more, and again had just enough snow on it to make it dangerous, and it took about 1.5 hours to cover that section.  As such I arrived on the peak at 9:50 am (Pacific Time), and I managed to get a text off to Ana.

Off to the south about a mile away and 300 feet higher is Montgomery Peak in California.  The ridge between the two peaks didn’t look bad, and I was doing great on time so I decided to wander over to Montgomery.  It turned out to be no easy ridgeline with a lot of loose rock and gendarme clusters to down climb and skirt around.  In the end I must have had to gain close to 1000 feet to reach the 13441 foot peak, and it took about one hour to arrive from Boundary Peak.  I wasn’t happy about how tough it was.  On Montgomery I managed to get a text off to Danny Lay giving him a time estimate for when I would be back at my car and heading to Lee Vining where I was to meet him that evening.

On the return trip to Boundary I tried to by-pass its peak and in so doing I down climbed to far and had to regain the lost elevation which added a half hour to my return time.  Between the true summit of Boundary and its lower false summit I noticed another hiker, an older lady, alone, who wasn’t following my tracks so we didn’t cross paths.  It got really warm on the descent and I ended up down to just my g-top.  By 4 pm I was back at my camp.  Just as there had been on both my hikes up, there were a lot of mule deer present on the way down along the lowest section.

Back at my vehicle I attempted to text Danny but couldn’t get a message to send, and as I drove out I attempted several more times finally succeeding when I reached highway 6.  I arrived in Lee Vining before 7 pm, and looked around a bit before I let Danny know.  I was having a Burger at Mono Cone when he arrived at perhaps about 7:30 pm.  We chatted a bit, having not seen each other for about a year, and then I followed him into the National Forrest and a camp spot he had in mind.  At the camp I was flossing my teeth when one of my crowns popped off.  I was tired from the long hike, and it was dark so I was in bed by 9 pm asleep in the back of my SUV.

Next morning I moved my gear into his truck and we left my vehicle at the Mobile in Lee Vining before setting off to Cathedral Peak in Tuolumne Meadows.  The hike into Cathedral Peak took about 1.5 hours, and the 700 foot climb up its SE buttress took about 2.5 hours.  On the west end of Cathedral Peak sits the impressive Eichorn Pinnacle 50 feet above the ridge line.  It’s an inviting climb so we dropped down the west side of Cathedral and skirted around to the north side of the pinnacle and climbed up it past a couple of pitons guarding some impressive exposure.

By 5:45 pm, having started at 10 am we arrived back at Danny’s truck, and had to drive back out of the Park to find camping in the National Forrest.  Danny cooked us some pasta with tomato sauce, fresh tomatoes, and red peppers, and then we slept in the back of his Toyota Tacoma.

Next morning, Oct 8, we were up by 5 am, and on the road to Yosemite Valley to get in line for a potential camp spot at the infamous Camp 4.  We arrived at 6:45 am, and waited until 8:30 am when the booth opened to learn that there were only 16 spots opening up and we were the 19th and 20th people in line.  I was very happy about this, as Camp 4 didn’t look like the type of place I would be comfortable in. Nonetheless it did mess up our plan, and left us wondering how to proceed.  I suggested we get on a close by wall where Danny could show me how to jumar, and that we did.  Following that Danny said he would like to climb the South Faced of the Washington Column.  We figured we could hike to its base that afternoon and climb it over the next couple of days.

So we headed over to the Ahwahnee Hotel on the east end of the valley and organized are gear.  It was about 3pm when we left the parking lot each of us lugging what we guessed were 80 pound haul bags full of climbing and camping gear, as well as food and water.  Danny, who had been on the climb before, figured we could make it part way up the South face that evening at least as far as the Dinner Ledge where we could sleep.  The hike in, with the heavy haul bags, was very tough, and required close to 2 hours, so it was after 5 pm when we started climbing, and was exactly 5:42 pm when Danny started leading the second pitch.  The standard south face route goes at 5.8 C1.  It’s three pitches up to the Dinner Ledge, and we had to do the last one in the dark with head lamps.  At the ledge one group was heading down, and another , of two people, was spending the night, so we scrambled up to the higher ledge to camp there.

In the morning Danny decided to try the Southern Man route as the other team had fixed lines up the next couple of pitches of the South Face route.  Southern Man starts right where we were camped, and is just left of the standard south face route.  It starts out as a bolt ladder, which he flew up, going as fast as or faster than the other team was jumaring, but then the second pitch has no bolts and is just a fine crack needing pound in aid pieces (knife blades perhaps); Mountain Project rates Southern Man as 5.10a A1-2.  After trying for 1.5 hours, Danny finally relented and had me lower him off a single brass offset (I think) back to the bolts where I was hanging.  Before climbing Danny was under the assumption that Southern Man was bolted up to where we could get back on the south face route.  He does clean aid climbing not old school pound in aid, so we simply had bad beta and not the right gear.  It was hot, and I was pleased with what we had down on the climb, and I was fine with retreating all the way back to the car.  Back at the dinner ledge Danny decided to try the standard South Face route, now with the others gone, but two moves up it he felt the heat of the day, and like me, was happy to call it a day, and so we rappelled off passing a couple English climbers on their way up.

The hike out, with the heavy haul bags, was tough again, but less so then the ascent.  Once back at the hotel parking lot we washed up in the lobby bathroom then drove over to the Curry village where I treated us to a pizza.  On the walk to Washington Column you pass a backpackers camp ground, and so on the way out I stopped there to learn about staying there.  All it required was a wilderness permit, so after the pizza we stopped at the ranger station and obtained a wilderness permit by saying we were going to climb NW face of half dome.  The hike into the backpackers campground took only seven minutes and it was a quiet, clean, comfortable camping area.  We slept under the stars for just $5 each.

Friday morning, Oct 10, we conveniently decided not to climb the NW face of half dome (wink wink), and instead returned our camping gear to Danny’s truck and headed over to Royal Arches with our free climbing gear.  The climb consists of 17 pitches to top out (15 if not topping out) and covers around 1600 vertical feet (according to supertopo.com), this climb is one of the  Fifty Classic Climbs of North America, according to Roper and Steck.  The climbing was easy (5.7 tops), and even had a pendulum swing on pitch 9.  It’s considered grade III (which means it need most of a day of to climb roped) but we reached the top of P15 (where you rappel from) in about 3.5 hours – however we then did the traverse pitches and topped out.  Combined with topping out we then rappelled off and didn’t get back to the car until around 5pm having started about 9 am.  Danny lead all the pitches on all our climbs.

That evening we made dinner at a picnic spot with a view of El Capitan, then drove to Lee Vining where I picked up my car and followed Danny to the Mammoth Lakes Natural Hot Springs.   We camped near this funny guy who swore like crazy even in front of his young son.  We soaked in one that night, and another the next morning.  

Oct 11th, we drove up through Mammoth Lakes town en route to the Devils Postpile National Monument, and then back to Mammoth Lakes for lunch.  I then returned Danny to his truck park on highway 395, and I headed off to Benton, CA and highway 6 back home.  I drove until 10:15 pm (Mountain Time) making it to the turn off for Notch Peak where I camped for the night in the back of my SUV.  At 5 am I was woken up due to strong wind gusts, but with a quick pray they tapered off and I slept till close to 8 am.  I was home to Provo before 11 am.







