Jan 30, Ana, William DaBell, Matt Long, Aymara Jimenez and I drove to Ouray, CO.  We left Spanish Fork at 2:30 pm, and arrived at the Rivers Edge Motel about 8:15 am.  We had a 10-15 min delay just about 10 miles from Ouray (at the Teleride turn off) when a young cop pulled us over as a result of the rear license plate illuminator being burned out – luckily no ticket was issued.  It was raining hard when we arrived, which was discouraging.  That evening we basically just checked into the motel (room #30) and went to bed.  Ana and I shared a bed, Matt got his own bed, Aymara got the pull out couch, and William took the hallway floor.
Next morning, Jan 31, we were up at 7:00 am, with a foot of fresh snow on the ground, and with more falling.  We got ready and were the first ones at the motel breakfast.  Soon after Wayne Pullman, Willis Knapp and company wander in – that was a surprise.  Next came Jacob Moon and his girlfriend.  After breakfast we got my Rodeo swept off and all five of us drove up to the Ice Park.  We walked down from the upper parking lot to the Five Fingers area, and put Williams rope on Playing Hookie, and Matts rope on We’re #1.  We lower Ana into the gorge so she could better see as she wasn’t going to climb.  I climbed Playing Hookie, as William belayed from the top, while Aymara climbed We’re #1 as Matt belayed from the bottom.  Then we switched places as I belayed William and Aymara belayed Matt. Ana soon got cold, so we set up a z-pulley and pulled her out.   By this time it was 12:30 pm ish, so we paused for lunch, following which Ana and Aymara decided to walk back to the motel.  Matt, William and I each did a few more laps on the two climbs and then moved over to the lower bridge.  Matt lowered in first off the bridge, to do the climb on the west side, but it wasn’t well formed this year and he struggled to get out.  Next I had William lower me in to the point above the ill-formed section and I climbed out.  William decided not to climb that one.  Next we head up to New Funtier, crossing paths with Jake, Glenn etc.  After a lap each at New Funtier it was approaching 5pm so we hiked out.  That evening we went to Maggies for a burger, and then watched The Secret Life of Walter Mitty on Matt computer.
Feb 1, we awoke to about 3 inches of new snow.  This day Ana elected to stay at the motel, and so after breakfast the rest of us went to the School Room area. After less than half a climb up the route to the left of the School Room Pillar, Aymara decided she’d had enough and walked out back to the motel.  Soon after Michael Ramsey and Amy Brower joined us, followed by Glenn Merrill.  We spend the whole day on four climbs in the School Room.  That evening we had dinner at OConnel(?).  We had planned with Jacob Moon to go to the hot springs, but walking back to the motel after dinner no one felt like it so we reneged, and Ana, Aymara, and I hit the motel hot tub instead.  After a while Glenn, Amy, and Michael joined us.  Following the hot tub, back at the room, the five of us watched “To the Limit” a flick about the Huber brothers attempt to set a speed record on the Nose of El Cap in Yosemite.
Feb 2, everyone but me seemed reluctant to get out of bed, but with me up they soon followed.  After breakfast, we loaded my Rodeo with all our stuff, and William, Matt and I head up to the ice park, while Aymara and Ana choose to remain at the motel.  William and I climbed at South Park till 11:15 ish (Matt hung out and belayed), then we met the girls at the upper bridge.  By noon we were driving home.  From Orem to Ouray, and back to Spanish Fork was 1,114 km, and it cost $120 in gas, and $300 for the motel room.  After dropping off Matt in Spanish Fork, we were back to Orem by 6pm.
