In July 2014 Sean Stanton invited me to join a group he was organizing to hike Englestead Canyon in Zion NP.  Sean picked me up around 2 pm on  August 8, 2014 and we drove to his house to meet the rest of the group. The group consisted of Dallin Hardy and his wife Heather, along with her brother Cameron Faerber, and Megan Ricks who was the last to arrive.  We got out of Provo later than Sean had hoped for, and by the time we reached Beaver, where we stopped for a quick bite to eat, Sean realized we that we were not going to make it to Zion before that permit office closed.  He seemed pretty stressed about that fact.  He was hoping to pick up Orderville Canyon  permits in addition to the Englestead permits he already had as he wished to exit Englestead via Orderville and the Narrows.   Personally I was content with hiking only Englestead as I had done the Orderville/Narrows exit in 2010 when I did Birch Hollow canyon.

At Cedar city it was decided that we’d leave I-15 and take highway 14 over to highway 89 so we could camp on the BLM land on the east side of Zion NP.   Highway 14 was new to me and it ended up providing a great view to the south of Zion NP.  Highway 14 is mountainous and crosses a pass before dropping down to highway 89.  We had to stop a couple of times as Dallin’s car was overheating.  By the time we reached 89 we could smell anti-freeze and so we had to stop, let the car cool, then add anti-freeze.  Dallin had a partial jug of anti-freeze, but Megan had to shuttle him back to the 14/89 junction to buy more.  After that the car didn’t overheat again.  

It was close to 10pm when we found the BLM camp spot.  We made a quick fire, then laid out on traps to sleep.  Dallin and Sean both really wanted to get the Orderville permits so they formed a plan to have Dallin get up at 5am and drive to the permit office.  He did that.  The rest of us got up at 6am and packed up leaving the camp spot at 6:30 am.  Heather, Cameron, and I got dropped off at the North Fork Rd while Megan and Sean drove into the Park to pick up Dallin.  When the other three returned all six of us piled into Dallin’s car and drove 8 miles down North Fork Rd to the start of the hike.  

We started hiking about 8:45 am and after about 45 minutes arrived at the big drop which is a 300 foot rappel into the canyon.  Dallin had a 300 foot static rope, which allowed us to make the big drop in one rappel.  I went first, but just over 200 feet down, at big ledge, the rope was very tangled so I stopped, went off rappel, and untangled the rope.  In the meantime Sean got on the rope to rappel, but “felt weird” about it, so he switched places with Megan who did the whole 300 feet.  Next Heather came down, then I finished the rappel, followed by Cameron, Sean, and Dallin. 

We had attached para-cord (550-cord) as a pull line to the static rappel line and with all of us pulling we couldn’t get the heavy rope to move.  We ended up doing a 2:1 pulley off the anchor for the next rappel, and were successful in getting the rope down without snapping the 550-cord.
Several rappels followed, one after the other including  my favorite one which was about 100 feet down a beautiful flute. Just before entering Orderville Canyon several short rappels off logs and other natural anchors where required for which we used my 7mm 25 foot line tied to 20 feet of core shot rope Sean had brought.

Englestead Canyon was completely dry, and Orderville canyon was mostly dry until the last third of it which then required one swim and several chest deep wades.  It was around 5pm before we had to do  the swim/wades and the sun was out of the canyon making it chilly.

It was about 7:30 pm when we reached the Temple of Sinawava, and 8:45 pm by the time we shuttled to the visitor center where Megan car waited.  Sean, Cameron, and I waited while the rest drove back to the trailhead to get Dallin’s car.  It was 10:45 pm by the time we had the car packed and were on the road back to Provo.  Megan headed out alone to St. George for the night before heading to Ranch Cucamonga the following day.  So five of us piled into Dalin’s car for the 275 mile back to Provo where we arrived at 3:15 am!!
