Written June 2020

Panorama Point, NE, 5,424 ft. – May 29, 2015, HP #18: The point is merely a slight rise on the vast plains.
We had been back in our house in Orem since the first of the year, and I had been busy with an endless list of tasks relating to it.  Having just installed the lawn irrigation system and laid the sod, I was at point where I both needed and could afford to take a break.  As such I convinced my wife Ana to take a high pointing road trip with me to Nebraska, and the Dakotas.  May 29 we drove the 500 plus miles to the south west corner of the Nebraska panhandle. Our first stop was the so-called, and incorrectly named, tristate corner of Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming.   A plaque there correctly states “Corner common to Nebraska and Wyoming on the Colorado state boundary” and also that a surveyor “established this corner monument August 17, 1869 at the intersection of the forty-first parallel of north latitude with the twenty-seventh degree of west longitude (west of Washington, D.C.)”.  For the record many US surveys of the 1800s were based on the Washington Meridian, which was officially abolished in favor of the Greenwich Meridian in 1912. More information let us know the monument had been rehabilitated in 1981 and 1997.  Next to the plaque stands the preserved original marker with a USGS benchmark on top of it. The “new” base is sort of a map labeling Colorado and showing the corner of Nebraska and Wyoming.  The marker is fenced in protecting it from cattle. Besides the plaque and the marker there really is nothing but prairie to see here however it’s intriguing to be able to be in three US states simultaneously.
From the tristate marker it is only a few miles to the highest point in Nebraska. This is farm and ranching land with few people and so the roads are gravel and require paying attention to find your destination. The highpoint is privately owned and is located on a Bison Ranch.  A large sign at the ranch states “Welcome to High Point Bison” and askes visitors to pay a highpoint entry fee.  Attached to the large sign is a small one warning about ranging bison residing in the area – as they can be aggressive toward humans.  From the welcome sign to the over one mile high top of Nebraska is around a mile on another gravel/dirt road.  Upon arrival one would never think they were at a high point as the point is merely a slight rise on the vast plains.  Off to the west far away are the Rocky Mountains and in all directions are extensive views of the prairie. As is common on the prairies the wind was blowing from the west.  We were not lucky enough to see any of the bison which supposedly roam freely around this area.
To be clear, the highpoint itself is nothing extraordinary; in fact it is simply a monument in the middle of a field at an out of the way place one would likely never otherwise visit if it wasn’t for a highpointing goal.  Nevertheless the feeling of reaching a destination and the knowledge of being on the highest natural point of a state felt good. 
The high point monument, standing four feet tall is an obelisk of granite supported on a concrete base, seems out of place. However it’s more at home then the black painted piano like metal bench located next to it.   The metal bench contained the summit log book which we signed.  To prevent the buffalo from rubbing up against the monument it is enclosed behind a handrail, which made a nice place to climb on to for a triumphant highpoint pose with arms extended toward the clouds above. The Highpointers club has placed one of their benches next to the metal table. 
From Panorama Point we drove north to the Black Hills where we spent the night at a Motel 6 in Hot Springs, SD. Lots of miles this day, about 700.  And another US state highpoint checked off.

Black Elk Peak, SD, 7,242 ft. – May 30, 2015, HP #19: From the top of the tower we spotted mountain goats likely there to drink from the pond.
Having arrived in Hot Spring South Dakota the evening prior, we let the motel by 6 am and drove through Custer State park to Sylvan Lake. En route we saw bison, turkeys, deer, and antelope. On the Needles Highway we pasted through two one-way tunnels with the narrower of the two being only about 8 feet wide. From Sylvan Lake we hiked 3.5 miles to the top of Harney Peak, as it was still officially named in those days, the high point of South Dakota. 
Black Elk Peak, as it is officially named since August 11, 2016 lies in the south west corner of its state among a jumble of granite spires sticking out above the dark green, almost black, ponderosa pines. The summit is the highest point east of the Rocky Mountains, and pretty close to the geographical center of the United States. The Native people referred to the area as Paha Sapa which translates to hills that are black. The name Black Elk honors the prominent Lakota Sioux medicine man of the same name.
American settlers used Black Elk Peak as a fire lookout tower as far back as 1911, and during the make work projects of the Great Depression a stone fire tower was erected being completed in 1939.  That tower was staffed until 1967. Today the outlook is on the register of historic places, but is still open to the public to climb and take in the outstanding views.  Interestingly the summit has even been the home to an official US Post Office back in the 1940s.
From the top of the tower we spotted mountain goats likely there to drink from the pond near the pump house. When needed he manmade pond (aka reservoir) supplied water to the living quarters which were located in the lower level of the fire tower.  The lunch we packed in was enjoyed on the summit.
Even with an hour on the peak, the whole hike was done by noon for a total of four hours. In the afternoon we visited Mt. Rushmore and were impressed with it. From Rushmore we had an early dinner in Hill City and then drove up to Deadwood, SD where we found primitive camping at the Mt. Roosevelt Picnic Area. It rained most of the night and was windy. 

White Butte, ND, 3,506 ft. – May 31, 2015, HP #20: The clay on the hiking path was wet and slippery.
After spending a rainy night in a tent in South Dakota the following morning we continued north into North Dakota to its state highpoint, White Butte. 
White Butte is located forty five miles, more or less, northeast of the south west corner of North Dakota.  This is a sparsely populated area, in the least populated county of the state, consisting mostly of grasslands. This state high point resides in the Little Missouri National Grassland a part of the Dakota Prairie Grasslands - a National Forest unit consisting entirely of prairies.  All the same White Butte is privately owned, as within the borders of the national grassland are substantial portions of both state owned and privately owned land.  In spite of being a part of a National Forest unit the major portion of the grassland lacks a wilderness designation and mineral development is a major threat to the Little Missouri National Grassland with 95% of the zone authorized for leasing.
We parked shy of an old dilapidated and abandoned farm house, and walked due south along a flat, over-grown, dirt, farm, road.  Within a half a mile we went through a gate, to the west, in the barbed wire fence paralleling our track.  We crossed a sandy wash in a little ravine as well as a downed barbed wire fence, and soon encountered a steep section to the peak. The elevation gain is roughly 400 feet, but since there are virtually no trees on this wind swept prairie it's enough for some really nice views in all directions.  Looking around we felt the buttes had an almost badlands like vibe to them.  Hiking in are primary view of the butte showed it to be a grass covered knoll.  However from a further distance, allowing for a panoramic view of the butte’s full massif, much of it is white in color.
On the summit a rock cairn stood to the north of the USGS benchmark which is mounted to the top of a three inch diameter pipe extending two feet above ground level.  Attached to the pipe by a cable was a green ammo box containing a summit registry book which we signed.  Next to the ammo box sat a long wooden box which we didn’t open, but which I have since learned contains a hand trowel which I don’t know the significance of.  Also close to the cairn is a metal marker for the late Lawrence P. Buzalsky (1935-1990) a member of the family that used to own the farm incorporating White Butte.
We snapped several picture from the highpoint before returning to our vehicle.  The clay on the hiking path was wet and slippery after lots of rain the day and night before, and as we descended Ana slipped giving her a muddy gray colored back-side.
Hikers are often cautioned about the rattlesnakes which are abundant in the area, but we didn’t encounter any at this time of the year.
This was a quick hike of under an hour round trip covering approximately 2.2 miles total– but I understand that nowadays the trailhead has been moved about 0.7 miles to the north of the abandoned farmhouse making the round trip closer to 3.4 miles.
By noon we were driving south again. We drove by Devils Tower in Wyoming, and then to Casper for dinner. From Casper we continued to Rawlins and checked into a motel there at 10 pm. Way too much driving for one day!





~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

May 29, 2015 Ana and I drove to Nebraska to Panorama Point the state high point.  Close by is the tri-state corner for NE, WY, and CO so we hit that first.  From Panorama Point we drove north to the Black Hills where we spent the night at Motel 6 in Hot Springs, SD.  Lots of miles that day, about 700.
Day 2 – May 30, we let the motel by 6 am and drove through Custer State park to Sylvan Lake.  En route we saw bison, turkeys, deer, and antelope.  On the Needles Highway we pasted through two one-way tunnels with the narrow of the two being only about 8 feet wide.  From Sylvan lake we hiked 3.5 miles to the top of Harney Peak SD highpoint.  Even with an hour on the peak, the whole hike was done by noon for a total of 4 hours.  In the afternoon we visited Mt. Rushmore and were impressed with it.  From Rushmore we had an early dinner in Hill City and then drove up to Deadwood, SD where we found primitive camping at the Mt. Roosevelt Picnic Area.   It rained most of the night and was windy.  
Day 3 – May 31, we continued north into North Dakota to its state highpoint, White Butte.  That was a quick hike of under an hour round trip.  By noon we were heading south again.  Drove by Devils Tower in Wyoming, and then to Casper for dinner.  From Casper we continued to Rawlins and checked into a motel there at 10 pm.  Way too much driving for one day!
Day 4 – Return to Orem.  Almost ran out of gas when the station near Fort Bridger had its pumps closed and we didn’t have enough to get to Evanston.  Had to go into the town of Fort Bridger for a couple of gallons to tie us over to Evanston.  Lot of driving but great trip.  Loved the Black Hills and would like to go back to rock climb.

1.	Map
2.	WY, CO, NE corner marker
3.	Same
4.	Same
5.	Same
6.	Same
7.	Entrance to NE highpoint, Panorama Point
8.	Panorama point
9.	Ditto
10.	Ditto
11.	Ditto
12.	Ditto
13.	Ditto
14.	Ditto
15.	Ditto
16.	Map
17.	Bison near Wind Cave National Park
18.	Turkey near Wind Cave National Park
19.	8 foot wide tunnel along the Needles Highway
20.	Ana En route to Harney Peak
21.	Views on the hike
22.	Stairs near the top of Harney Peak
23.	Ditto
24.	Ditto
25.	Lookout on Harney Peak
26.	Ditto
27.	Ditto
28.	Ditto
29.	Ana at the look out
30.	Ana heading to the top of the lookout
31.	Walter heading to the top of the lookout
32.	In the lookout
33.	Views
34.	More wildlife – Mtn Goat
35.	At the peak marker on Harney Peak, SD highpoint
36.	Ditto
37.	Ditto
38.	Ditto
39.	Ditto
40.	Ditto
41.	Ditto
42.	Look close to see the lookout
43.	Ana
44.	Mt. Rushmore
45.	 
46.	 
47.	 
48.	 
49.	 
50.	 
51.	 
52.	 
53.	 
54.	 
55.	 
56.	 
57.	Day 3 map
58.	At the trailhead for White Butte, ND highpoint.
59.	 
60.	 
61.	 
62.	 
63.	 
64.	 
65.	 
66.	 
67.	 
68.	Looks like Alberta!
69.	 
70.	The Clay on the hike was wet and slippery after lots of rain the days and night before, Ana slipped.
71.	Ditto
72.	Devils Tower, WY
73.	 
74.	Day 4 drove home.
