September 22, 2016 Daniel Lay arrived in Orem.  He spent the night at my place, and the next day we drove down to Zion NP.  En Route we stopped in Richfield at his mother’s place for him to have a quick visit and to drop off some things.  From Richfield we drove to Cedar City and had lunch, then to Zion NP.  

It had been raining in Zion and the park was a little reluctant to issue us an overnight climbing permit for Moonlight Buttress.  As it turned out rain wasn’t a regulation and so we were issued the permit.  Our plan was to climb Moonlight Sept 25 & 26 and spend a night at the top of Pitch 5 on a portaledge.

Friday, after we got the permit, we drove east through the tunnel out of the park and camped on the BLM land.  We planned for an early start the next day, so we spent the evening sorting gear and preparing for the next two days. Rain threatened in the evening, but didn’t materialize.  However the sand around camp was extremely water soaked, and we did have concerns about the sandstone of Moonlight Buttress.

I was up at 5:30 am Saturday morning, and by 5:55 am we were on the road.  It took 30 minutes to reach Big Bend on the Zion Canyon road – with our permit we were allow to drive down the road that is typically just for the shuttle buses nowadays.  The evening before we had determined, based on the forecast of potential 37 mile an hour wind gusts overnight, that “fix and fly” would be a better approach to our objective then sleeping on the wall.  Danny still wanted to camp on the wall 50 feet up or so, but as we prepared to leave the truck I convinced him that we should leave the camping gear behind and return for it after we fixed the ropes.  

The hike into the base of the climb is short but involves removing ones shoes to wade the Virgin river, so it take maybe 30 minutes or less.  Danny planned to aid climb all 10 pitches and I my job was belayer.  It was 11 am by the time we completed the first pitch, and the rock was sandy due to the previous day’s rain.  Around the same time as we completed pitch one two other climbers arrived, and before Danny could finish P2 their lead was up P1.  I got onto P2, before their second completed P1.  In retrospect I should have climbed P1 rather than jugging it, but I didn’t know and Danny didn’t suggest it.  It was such a crappy pitch that I wasn’t sure I wanted to proceed with the climb, and I was hoping the rock was too wet for us to continue. I prayed a lot for things to work out for the best.

P2 is follows a right facing flake for its’ crux then easy 5.6 terrain up to a big belay ledge.  Here I scored two slings and a locking biner, someone had rappelled off.  We finished this pitch and were off on Pitch 3 before either of the other two climbers arrived.

P3 is an right angling bolt ladder up to the infamous  “Rocker Block”.  I was jugging this pitch at 12:53 pm.  The Rocker Block is a 2 foot by 4 foot block maybe 3 feet tall that is loose, and rocks (hence the name), however the block is attached to the wall with chains to prevent it falling down.

P4 is a long one, 180 feet or so, and is known as the “The Grand Dihedral”. Danny was about half-way up that at 2:15 pm.  The first of the other two climbers arrived maybe around 2:30 pm, and his follower after that.  I didn’t need to follow this pitch, and I’d guess Danny was down it sometime after 3pm.  The follower of the other team arrived not long before this.  

While our two teams were both belaying (me on the Rocker Block, and the other fellow just below on a ledge), we started chatting, and I learned his name was Mark and he was 26 years old, from Salt Lake City, but living locally in Rockville, and working as a waiter at Mimi’s Café in Springdale. Super nice guy, and he even offer to have us spend the night at his place.  I was concerned about our rappel off, as it seemed to me that we didn’t have enough rope, and he agreed, and said if that was indeed the case we could borrow his rope to fix it, and he’d come back the next day to get it. His friend was Mike.

They wanted to climb the next pitch, and then rappel down our ropes.  They were free climbing.  When we started the rappel, and didn’t end up with enough rope (our third rope was just a 30 meter one), they abandoned P4 and sent down their 80 meter rope to us, then followed us to the ground.  We arranged with them to lead us their rope for a couple hours so I could jumar up it and replace it with one of ours which Danny ran to the truck to get.  So they saved the day us, as we would have had to jumar up to the top of P4 and retrieve that rope in order to get down, and then we wouldn’t have been far enough along to complete the climb the next day.  We meet them at the Bit and Spur restaurant around 5 or 6pm, had dinner with them, then ended up going to Mark’s place where we returned his rope and just spent the night there sleeping in the truck on his driveway.

Sunday, September 25, I was up at 5:30 am again, and by 6am were we driving back to Big Bend.  This time we had no gear sort so we hiked in in the dark, and began jummaring our three ropes to the top of P4.  It was 9 am by the time we got up the ropes and Danny started up P5.  This one was a hanging belay for me, and I set up a seat to sit in.  It was 10:40 am when I reach the ledge at the top of P5 730 feet off the ground.  

P6 and P7 Danny linked, but it was almost 3 hours until we were both at the top of P7 (1:29 pm).  This belay station is a 4 to 6 inch wide ledge 930 feet off the ground.  As I belayed, for over 2 hours at the top of P5 many park buses came down the road and stopped to watch us.  P8 led to another hanging belay, and we were on P8 for around 2 hours.

P9 is 130 feet of more splinter crack, and Danny linked that with P10 which is 30 feet of 5.7 slab.  It was  5:45 pm when we topped out.


Photos 1-4 = Moonlight buttress and route.
1.	Moonlight Buttress
2.	Moonlight Buttress
3.	Route
4.	Routes
5.	Walter on P3
6.	Great White Throne from Rocker Block
7.	Selfie on Rocker
8.	Some Dude (on-line pic) on Rocker
9.	Looking down from Rocker
10.	Danny on P4
11.	Day 2 – Danny starting P5
12.	P5 on-line photo
13.	Selfie at hanging belay top of p4
14.	Top of p4 hanging belay
15.	Ditto
16.	Ditto
17.	Video at hanging belay
18.	Walter jugging P5
19.	Top of p5 looking north
20.	Ditto
21.	Top of P5
22.	Video
23.	Danny leading P6
24.	Top of P7, danny linked 6 and 7.
25.	Walter at top of P7
26.	Ditto
27.	Danny on P8
28.	Top of P7 the ledge is 930 feet above the ground
29.	Selfie top of P7
30.	Video
31.	Some dude (on-line pic) top of P7
32.	Topping out on P8
33.	P9
34.	Done!  Day 2 started jugging around 7 am, so it took 11 hours to climb the 1200 feet.
35.	Coiling Rope.
