May 14, 2017 Ana and I left Orem about 6:30 am and drove to Moab.  A few miles outside of Moab is the Gemini Bridges trailhead (mile marker 135.5 on Hwy 191).  We drove the easy off-road Gemini  Bridges trail through about 12 miles to highway 313, stopping en route to walk over to the two Gemini Bridges.  We learned that Bridges differ from Arches as bridges are formed by flowing water (creeks, etc) and Arches are result of erosion.  

Next we were planning to drive down the Shafer trail from Canyonlands to Potash road, but to do so we discovered we’d have to go through the Canyonlands toll booth.  $25 (entrance fee) is a lot of gas so I opted to drive 313 to 191 to Potash road and go up the Shafer trail instead.  From where the pavement ends on Potash road, up Shafer trail, to highway 313 is about 18 miles.  I’d guess if was close to 1pm when we started up Shafer trail, and it took a little over 2 hours to cover the 18 miles with stops along the way.  Much to my liking it wasn’t busy, there was just one other group of 3 vehicles that was going up about the same time as us, but we stayed ahead of them after passing them.  Only passed one guy coming down until we reached the switchbacks then we let 4 vehicles pass us when I was already pulled over, and another had to back up to let us by as we neared the top of the switchbacks.  

We elected to drive back down, as that is the way I had intended to do the drive, and I liked the scenery in that direction better.  Couldn’t have been more than 1.5 hours going down.  We were in Moab around 5pm.  Stopped at Gearheads, then went out of dinner at the same place Mike and I went across the street from Gearheads.  After dinner we walked around town a little bit, then at 7pm we drove up to Sand Flats and I was happy that the toll both was closed for the evening.  It took me awhile to work up to it, but eventual I decided to drive over Baby Lions Back from West to East.  Did it twice, first time with Ana and second time Ana walked it and took photos.  We found several open camp spots where Fins and Things joins the road, and we stayed the night there.  The topper was great to camp in, and the temperature was pleasant with no bugs.

May 15, we were up at 6:30 am and by 7:00 am we left the campground, electing to go down to the Lions Park to make breakfast out of the sand.  The attraction of Baby Lions Back was too much for me, so we drove it again, this time East to West.  After breakfast, we left Moab and went to check out Nine Mile Canyon.  Lots of Indian rock art to see, and very peaceful just one other car around which we just saw a couple times.  At Gate Canyon we headed North toward highway 40/191. Gate canyon is a gravel road, but soon becomes paved again and is called a scenic byway.  Lots and lots of Natural gas pumps all over the land and I think some of that land is Indian reservation. We stopped in Heber at the thrift store but it was closed, but we both found something in the “free” pile outside; Ana got a LL Bean duffle bag, and I got cheap snow sled.  We were home by 5pm.

Spent $87.01 on gas (about 45 gals) for the 646 miles we drove.  Averaged 18 miles per gals with the best second getting 20 mpg.  Dinner was $30 in Moab.
