After work, around 5pm, Mike Gibby and I drove down to Moab with the intent to ski tour in the La Sal Mountains. The La Sals are a small range covering an area 25 miles long (north-south) by 15 miles wide and contain twelve peaks higher than 12000 ft.  Situated just a few miles east of Moab, they are in sharp contrast to the hot, arid canyon lands the area mainly consists of.

We headed south of town towards Ken’s Lake then east to Geyser pass road which is plowed to 9600 feet.  We camped a mile or so shy of the end of the plowed road, and had camp set up by 11pm.  Next morning we were up around 6:30 am and started out on skies at about 8:45 am.  We followed the snow packed road into Gold Basin and past a Yurt below Mount Tukuhnikivatz.  From the Yurt the north facing Exxon’s folly face of Little Tuk (aka No. Tuk), the 10th highest peak of the range at 12,048 ft, is clearly visible.  We decided to climb Exxon’s folly and to top out on Little Tuk.  We arrived on top at about 2:30 pm having taken a leisurely pace.  We skinned most of the ascent with the exception of the upper section of Exxon’s folly, and the final 200 or so vertical feet to the summit.  Views to the east revealed Colorado’s  San Juan Mountains 100 miles away.  Views north showed the desert landscape of the Castle Valley. And to the NW views of the Spanish Valley (home of Moab) and west of Spanish Valley the Canyon lands.  We spent 30 minutes on the summit, then hiked back down to our ski stash 200 feet below the peak, from which point we skied NE down the face east of the ridge on the east side of Exxon’s folly.  We began the ski descent at about 3:30 PM, and arrived back at the trailhead at 5 pm.   

Mike suggested we drive the 30 or so miles into Moab and award ourselves with a big meal.  We ate at the Moab Grill, and were very pleased with the quality and large portions. The week-long 2017 Easter Jeep Safari event was going on so there were 100’s of tricked out Jeeps in town that were awesome to see.  We were back to our camp around 9:00 pm, and I was ready to hit the hay, while Mike enjoyed a fire.

Saturday we were packed and on the road back to Moab by 9:30 am.  Our first stop was the Sand’s Flat rec area where Mike wanted to go rappelling in Loop G (?) of the camping area.  From the top of the rappel we saw many Jeeps on Fin’s and Things safari route.  After rappelling we drove to the end of Powerhouse ln to a view point of Potato Salad hill.  I walked over to the hill and watched a couple tricked out trucks climb it while Mike waited at his truck.  After that we made some lunch at the Rotary Park then headed out to Dead Horse State Park.  From Dead Horse Point the La Sal Mountains are almost due east 25 miles away, and we could pick out Mount Tukuhnikivatz in the middle section of the range.  It was around 6pm when we arrived back in Orem.  We split park entrance fees and gas, each paying $51.00.  Add in a $20 meal and my total trip opportunity cost was  $71.
