Oct 3, 2019 at 12:15 am I caught a red-eye flight from Salt Lake City to Charlette, NC and then to Greenville, SC.  I got in around 9:30 am EST, drove my rental car to Sassafras Mountain, SC arriving close to noon.  On the way I picked up a few groceries.  Sassafras Mountain is shared by North and South Carolina, but is the highest point in SC.  It’s not much to see, and you all but drive to the summit where they have a newly built (just this year) summit platform tower, which is half in SC and half in NC.  There is a stone marker with a plaque on in on the SC side to the east of the platform marking the high point.
After spending 30 minutes or so on the peak I drove to Georgia to Brasstown Bald.  Which turned out to be a very nice mountain.  Heavily forested with smooth shiny leaf tropical like plants.  I had to pay $5 to park, which also included a shuttle bus to the summit, but I elected to walk the 6/10 of a mile.  The summit has a large platform, tower, and small visitor center.  The views in all 360 degrees were amazing.  When I left, I was the last person on the summit leaving just after 5pm having arrived around 4pm at the parking lot.
Next, I had to drive to Smokemont campground in the Great Smokey Mountains NP of NC/TN.  There was a parade going on in Hiawassee, GA and they blocked the highway so I had to wait there for 30 or 40 minutes.  It was dark and around 9pm when I finally arrived at my reserved camp spot.  The fellows next door where playing guitar and I worried they would keep me up all night, but they quieted down by 10 pm and I slept very well.  I had the spot till noon, and it was close to 11 am when I finally left.
Oct 4, 2019, I made it to Clingmans Dome by noon with the 20-mile drive and the half mile hike.  I was shocked that the large parking area for Clingmans Dome was all but full, but then again it was a Friday.  A steady stream of people, many on the biggest adventure of their life’s [apparently], where going up and down the paved half mile to and from the summit.  I got a few people to snap photos of me on the tower and leaving it, and then I headed over to the Appalachian Trail to walk a bit of it since it’s the highest point of that trail. The Appalachian trail is in TN, and at a height of 6643 ft but the summit tower is actually on the NC side of the TN/NC line. On the AT, I told an older couple about my quest and they told me about a young family they meet a few weeks ago who were trying to set the record with their baby being the youngest person ever to visit every state in the shortest time frame, they had six weeks to do it.
After I got home from my trip, and begin writing this report, I was shocked to learn that the summit tower on Clingmans Dome seems to actually be in NC (I can’t find a map that shows it otherwise).  I also started to wonder, then, if perhaps a USGS marker would have been a better indicator that I had reached the highpoint of Tennessee.  What I gleamed from my research is there is no USGS marker on the summit (only one at the parking lot), and that by reaching the tower via the paved trail, one crosses over the 6643 peak.  One person stated, half-joking, when mentioning that he could find no USGS marker on the summit, “the roof of the observation tower is shaped very much like a survey marker... and I surmised that it is a giant USGS marker and the marker to which the ranger was referring :)” – that would clear up the confusion, if only the tower were in TN!  Apparently, North Carolina gave up claims to its western land (which later became Tennessee) in 1789. The border was described in plain English, as running "along the extreme height" of the mountains. As such, I must conclude it is fortunate North Carolina has two peaks, both clearly within the NC borders, which are taller than Clingmans Dome.  If that were not the case then we would have a situation where two states shared a high point.  Bottom line, everyone seems to agree that Clingmans Dome is the point of TN, and that state borders drawn on electronic maps can be off slightly, and slightly makes for confusion when looking into highpoints on state lines.  So perhaps the summit tower is both in TN, and a giant USGS marker.
Following Clingmans Dome, I stopped at Newfound Gap, then headed north into Tennessee on Hwy 441, and stopped at the Chimney Tops trail.  I did the under 2-mile hike to the view of Chimney Tops (trail was closed at this point, and hiking to rocks were not allowed).  I was there at 2:45 pm Oct 4, 2019.  It was a fun hike up, as the second section of it is like one huge staircase. After the hike I drove 50 plus miles on scenic winding roads to the west end of the National Park to the Abram's Creek Campground where I had spot A10 reserved.   The west end of the Smoky Mountain NP, I had read, is not popular but the campground was small, crowded, noisy, and full.  Thankfully the spot next to mine stayed empty.
Oct 5, I was eager to leave Abram’s Creek Campground so I got up with the sun, and was on the road around 8 am, headed to the high point of Kentucky via the town of Harlan (as featured on the TV series Justified).  I made good time to Harlan covering the 120 miles in under 3 hours via some winding slower roads.  I should have stopped in Harlan, but I was eager to reach the high point so didn’t.  
I ended up on Hwy 38 from Harlan toward VA because Google maps shows an "old hwy 38" that connects to HWY 38 (a left turn from 38 to old 38 - 28.1 miles from Harlan). It also shows that "old hwy 38" becomes Black Mtn Ridge Road as it switches back and forth to the north and north east and goes over the private property of Black Mtn, KY to within 200 yards of it's true summit (unlike HWY 160 - the actual way to go - which gets you to within 1.5 miles from the true summit, and truly connects to Black Mtn Ridge Road).
Well, Old Hwy 38 isn't marked, and I couldn't find it. Plus, I can tell you this, now that I have visited the summit of Black Mtn, Black Mtn Ridge Road is gated closed 200 yards from the summit for those trying to continue west. In other words, even if I had found old Hwy 38, and even if it did connect to Black Mtn Ridge Road, one still couldn't drive to the summit from Hwy 38.
I ended up in Keokee VA (about 3.4 miles from the non-existing old Hwy 38), where I asked for directions to Black Mountain, and was sent SW to Hwy 421, 13 miles in the wrong direction. At this point I took highways 421 to 58, and 58 to Big Stone Gap, then 23 to Inman to get on 160 and up to the VA/KY line to Black Mtn Ridge Road and 1.5 miles to the summit. From Keokee, VA to Inman is only 10.6 miles - so asking for directions cost me 27 miles (which is about an hour on those windy roads). Bottom line you can't 100% trust Google Maps, and you definitely can't trust hill-billy directions to Black Mountain.  I got to the summit of Black by 2:30 pm about 1.5 hours or more latter than what I expected.  The highpoint of Hwy 160 is the border of KY/VA, and has a sign which incorrectly lists Black Mountains elevation as 4,145 ft when really it is 4,139 ft and further up the mountain.  
There was a hill-billy and his girlfriend parked at the Radar Tower eating McDonalds, and I got him to take a photo of me.  Then I continued up to the lookout tower area to see what was up there. I was only able to drive up the hill past the Radar Tower then I had to park and walk 200 yards to the tower.  It wasn’t climbable but in looking around I found a summit plaque on a rock, and I then knew I was at Kentucky’s highest point. 
As I drove down the weeded infested and often washed out Black Mtn Ridge road a pickup truck was coming up, but he pulled over for me and I got my low clearance Toyota Corolla past him without scraping anything.  It was just after 3pm when I headed down the mountain via Hwy 160 headed to Mt. Rogers 110 miles to the east.
I arrived at a place called Elk Garden and the AT trail on White Top Road, in thick fog the evening of Oct 5 to a full parking lot.  It started to rain and was cold, must have been 8pm-ish.  I got the parking spot of a fellow who was leaving, and I organized my things, from inside the car, for the next day’s hike.  Had planned to camp behind the trees south of the parking lot but with the weather I decided to sleep in the back seat of the car. 
Oct 6, 2019, I was awake, with breakfast in my stomach, and on the Appalachian Trail by 7:15 am.  It was foggy and wet but the rain had stopped.  No one else was heading up when I started up.  A car did arrive as I left the parking lot but they didn’t follow me up the AT.  After crossing White Top Road, and going through a gate I came to a sign for the AT and another for a horse trail.  I took the AT up a barren hill with white blazed fence posts as markers and soon entered the forest.  After 2 miles (which seemed way less) I came to a trail fork to a spring, and I stayed on the AT.  Occasionally there were camps set up, and a few people where hiking down. I seemed to be alone going up.  Maybe 3 miles in I came to an open spot to the east of a fence and there I saw signs of ponies but no ponies were seen through the thick fog, so I continued on the AT up.  Around mile 4, to reach the summit, the route leaves the AT and heads west on a blue blazed trail for a half mile or less to the wooded summit.  I made it up to the 5729 ft summit in under 2 hours, having gained 1295 feet.

On the summit was another hiker.  He had come up from via Massie Gap in Grayson Highlands State Park.  He was from Oregon and worked for Benchmark maps (I have 3 of their map books).  Nice guy.  He took a photo of me.  I spent about 30 minutes on the summit and was back to the car by 11:10 am. 
When I reached the high meadow, on the return trip, by back tracking on the blue blazed trail to the AT, the fog lifted, and ponies were in site.  Fellow hikers told me they had approached them so I walked down to them to get a closer photo, leaving the AT trail.  In the meadow was a sign pointing out the horse trail route back to Elk Garden.  I believe the trail is named the Highlands Horse Trail and it more or less paralleled the eastside of the AT and arrives back at Elk Garden, making my hike sort of a loop rather than a full back track.  On the Highlands Horse Trail, I passed two girls going up, then I overtook a family (one-child with parents) and next encounter two guys taking down their tent.  I confirmed that my trail lead back to Elk Garden with the two guys.
From Mt. Rogers I traveled to Boone, NC. Which is less than 50 miles away but mostly on those thin windy NC roads in the valleys of steep mountains with farms on the hill sides.  At one point I wondered if I wasn’t on the same roads of the trips I took to Grandfather mountain from Arlington back in the day.  
In Boone I stopped for groceries and for a late lunch. A friendly (or maybe weird) lady at the grocery store told me about how the hills around Boone are full of meth-heads and meth labs, and that her elderly mother (an ex-cop) had been strangled for reporting a meth lab.
After lunch, I continued another 8 miles on US-321 S to Blowing Rock where I got on the Blue Ridge Parkway going south.  The parkway was all fogged in, and light rain was falling, so I got robbed of the nice views into the valleys below – I only got a view once.  After about 50 or more miles on the Parkway, I stopped between mile markers 339 and 340 to take a short hike (one mile or less) down to Crabtree falls.  I was wondering if it was the same Crabtree falls, I went to when the Langley Ward went to Buena Vista, but it wasn’t (that one must have been in VA).  It was a nice hike though.  
From Crabtree it’s about another 20 miles on the Parkway to Mt. Mitchell, and I thought it was only 6 miles. But I still made it to my reserved camp spot before 6:00 pm.  It wasn’t raining when I set up my camp but around 7 pm the rain came in; about the same time the ranger came around to ask if I had a reservation.  He told to just stay in my tent due to the weather and just took my word for it that I had a reservation.  The 9-spot campground was full, but it was still a great camp as the spots were spread out, and with so few spots it never would be crowded.  Good clean restrooms as well.  
After resting in the tent for an hour or so, around 8pm I walk down to my car (the camp spots are walk-ins), and ate a light dinner in the car.  I’m sure I was back in my sleeping bag before 9pm.  Throughout the night the rain and wind would come and go, and often the rain was quite hard.  I got some condensation inside the tent, but for the most part the tent did its job and kept the rain out.
Oct 7, I was up before the sun, and I went down to the car to eat breakfast.  I hadn’t slept that well, but I had had enough of being in the tent.  I didn’t need my head lamp as started the 6/10 of a mile hike from the campground up to the 6684 ft summit of Mt. Mitchel – the highest peak east of the Mississippi. The trail from the campground connects to the Sea-to-Summit trail after 0.25 miles and then goes 0.35 miles on the Sea-to-Summit trail to within 100 yards or so of the peak.  
There was only one person on the summit, and the sunrise was still going on it at around 7:30 am when I arrived.  I took a few photos and I ask the other person on the summit tower to take a few of me. The fog/clouds in the valleys below would come and go, but the rain held off and we got nice views.  We chatted a bit and I found out the other guy was from Memphis and a Mechanical Engineer.  I walked down to the parking lot with him (past the Sea-to-Summit trail), as I wanted to see if I remembered it, but it didn’t look familiar.  There is even a store building there but it wasn’t open yet, and I didn’t remember that.  While there I noticed a sign about a grave on the summit, and I remembered that I forgot to check out the structure behind the Mt. Mitchell sign, so I went back up to the peak.
Next to the deck, on its south side, is the grave site of Elisha Mitchell, a geologist, explorer and Presbyterian minister. In the 1830s, his measurements proved the 6,684-foot peak was the highest in the East, surpassing Grandfather Mountain 60 miles northeast. Questions about the height persisted, and it was on a return expedition in 1857 that Mitchell fell to his death from a waterfall. I don't recall the grave from my 2001 visit but for sure it was there.
I hiked back to my camp, and packed up and by 9 or 9:30 am I was back on the parkway headed toward Ashville, NC, and from there Greenville, SC where I had a hotel reservation.  I got to Greenville by noon, and check in time was 3pm at the hotel.  I pulled into the parking lot on the side of the hotel and it was empty and the sun was out, so I took advantage of those things and put my wet gear out to dry.  I also called the motel to see if I could check in early and they said that would be okay, so at 1 pm I checked it.
I showered, and organized gear, and made myself some lunch.  Around 5pm I went out to do the drive to the airport, so I’d know the way in the morning but when I saw the traffic on the I-85 freeway I decided to just gas up the car and buy some snacks and dinner instead.  Back at the motel, I ate my dinner, and then packed up everything for the morning.  Spent the rest of the evening watching TV, it was close to 11pm when I dozed off aided by a Tylenol PM.
Oct 8, I was up by 6:15 am and at the motel breakfast by 6:30 am.  A bunch of American Airlines employees in their uniforms where at the breakfast (I guess AA uses that motel).  I was done with breakfast and ready to leave by 7:15 am.  I wanted to be at the airport by 8:00 am to return the car and catch my 10:08 am flight to Chicago.  I got on I-85 and on the ramp, but to late to change things, I realize I was on I-85 S not north.  I had to go several miles, in heavy traffic to an exit, but then there was no way to get back on I-85 N. I ended up on Old Airport Road and then on Pelham (my motel was off Pelham) but I was turned around and didn’t know if I was going east or west (I needed to go east on Pelham to the motel).  I tried one way, then the other and ended up at the end of Pelham Rd at North St.  There I got internet reception on my phone, and learned that I could use Pelham to I-385 to I-85 N, but it was now close to 8:00 am and I was 20 minutes from the airport.  It all worked out, and I got the car returned, checked in at the airport, went through TSA and still had an hour to spare before my flight.
In Chicago my flight to SLC was delayed an hour.  I was back to SLC before 5pm and then I used Trax, Frontrunner, and UVX bus to get home before 7pm.
Overall, I drove close to 980 miles on the trip and spent $1005.00.  As I always do after these trips, I felt like it was too rushed, but I don’t think there is a better way to do it.
See photos with descriptions at: https://photos.app.goo.gl/qFNwv84nWpLxVZNa8


