August 25, 2019 I caught a 9:30 am flight from SLC to Dallas, then another flight to DC, and finally a third flight to Portland ME, arriving in Portland around midnight local time – after having traveled for more than 13 hours.  First I checked in with Budget rental car and arranged to pick up my rental car the next morning, as my hotel, The Embassy Suites, was only a stone’s throw away.  As I walked the one-block to the hotel a fox darted across the street in front of me then paused to look at me.  I clapped my hands and he then took off.  I knew then Portland ME was still cool, and had to be uncrowded.
August 26 – after breakfast I picked up my car around 10 am and drove to Millinocket about 300 miles to the north (slightly east).  Once I got past Bangor on I-95 people disappeared.  First I located my motel, The Baxter Inn, and I waited until 3 pm to check in, and got a few groceries in the meantime.  I had a late lunch, early dinner, in my hotel room then drove the 18 or so miles to Baxter State Park home of Maines tallest mountain Mt. Katahdin (5,267 ft).  My purpose was to know where I needed to go early the next morning.  
At Baxter Park, I drove to the toll booth, and chatted with the employee, and found no reason to pay a fee to go in.  On the way back to Millinocket I checked out the NEOC (New England Outdoor Center), and realized camping would have been an okay option, in spite of the annoying bugs.  Back at the hotel, which was expensive ($140+ per night), old, broken down, and less then clean, I got everything ready for the next day’s hike.  I had to be up at 4:30 am (2:30 am Utah time), and on my way to Baxter State Park before 5 am to arrive by 5:30 am.  Park opens at 6:00 am and I wanted to be one of the first people in, plus my parking reservation could only be held till 7 am and wanted to arrive early so as not to risk being late.  Not surprisingly I didn’t sleep at all that night and was up before the 4:30 am alarm.
I arrived at Baxter pretty much at 5:30am and was the third car in-line at the gate, others soon arrived after me.  The 30 minute wait allowed me time for breakfast and to get my boots on.  It took till pretty much 6:20 am to get through the gate and drive, at 20 mph, to the Roaring Brook trailhead (parking area) as I had to follow some “do-gooder” all the way in who wouldn’t speed. Since my rental car had a Maine license plate they must have thought I was a resident and didn’t charge me a park entrance fee. 
I wasn’t the first one to sign in at the trailhead for the day, but I did seem to be the first one on the trail.  I used the Helon Taylor route to the Knife Edge to the peak.  The route is 4.3 miles from its departure from the Chimney pond trail, and climbs 3778 feet to the 5267 foot summit.  En route the trail crosses Pamola Peak (4902 feet) after 3.2 miles, and Chimney Peak where the route becomes the Knife Edge and crosses South Peak before reaching Baxter Peak (the highest summit on Katahdin). The Knife Edge is about 1.1 miles and climbs 365 feet. Tree line is at around 3500 feet. 
I all but sprinted to ensure I’d stay ahead of other hikers, and I was in a hurry to break out of the trees so I could get views of the area.  Around tree line I heard voices behind me, and once they broke out of the trees I caught glimpses now and then of a two man party, but they never caught up to me.  Before reaching Pamola I crossed paths with a party of two hikers descending from watching the sunrise, and after Chimney Peak I encountered one other fellow coming down.  So no crowds, which made the hike all the more awesome.  Once above tree lines I was able to see just how many, and there were tonnes of them, lakes cover Maine. Below tree line the environment reminded me of hiking in VA and of the movie Last of the Mohicans and I loved it – hiking in the east coast trees is such a pleasant experience. 
I reach the peak in 3 hours and 10 minutes arriving well before 10 am. It was a stout hike, with some upper 3rd class sections between Pamola and Chimney Peaks, and a very worthwhile and rewarding hike. On the peak were several folks who had just completed the full Appalachian Trail and more of them continued to arrive during the 45 minutes or so I spent at the top of Maine.  The AT trail comes up from the SW (heading NE) whereas the Knife Edge reaches the peak from the east (heading west).  Another hiker, not an AT hiker, pointed out to me how strange it is that the 2000 plus mile AT trail ends at the top of a mountain which requires hikers to then hike even more to get to ground transportation – valid point I thought.  Why not end at a lodge, parking lot, or restaurant? 

To descend Katahdin I decided to make a loop hike around the cirque formed by its South and Great basins so I dropped down to the north west reaching the saddle then proceed up to the 4765 ft Hamlin Peak - a distance of 2 miles. From Hamlin I descended Hamlin Ridge and the North Basin Cut off trails to the Chimney Pond trail and back to the Roaring Brook Ranger Station, a distance of 4.9 miles (that is 6.9 miles from Baxter Peak). 
The descent required 4 hours 20 mins which put me back to the car before 3pm having hiked over 4000 vertical feet and over 11 miles.  Following the hike I returned to the motel to shower then went out in search of a restaurant only to end up back at the grocery store with a few items to warm up in the motel room microwave.  I dropped a Tylenol PM to aid me in getting a good night rest, and I figured out how to turn on the rooms AC, so I slept well.
August 28 – after an awful motel supplied breakfast I got on the road this time heading to Mt. Washington in New Hampshire. It took over 4.5 hours to drive the 240 miles to the AMC Pinkham Notch Visitor Center in the White Mountains where I located the Tuckerman Ravine trail and began hiking at 1:40 pm.  With the exception of a group of teenagers with their guides heading up to what I assumed was the camping shelters at Hermit Lakes (2.4 miles up the old road section of Tuckerman Ravine), there was no one else heading up that late in the day much to my liking. However there were a few people coming down the trail.  I covered the 2.4 miles to the Hermit Lake area at 3875 ft in one hour. At this point the old road end and the trail becomes a single track. Similar to Katahdin I was again almost running but this time it was due to my late start time with the forecast of heavy rain and the very likely potential of having to hike down in the darkness.  
It’s only two tenth of a mile less to hike to the top of Mt. Washington then it is to hike to Baxter Peak on Katahdin – aka it’s 4.1 miles from the Pinkham Visitor Center, via Tuckerman, to the summit. However it is more vertical gain then Katahdin with the Visitor center being at 2050 feet and the summit at 6288 ft (over 4200 vertical gain).  From Hermit Lake to the summit is over 2400 feet of vertical gain in just over one and a half miles (1.7 miles).  1400 vertical gain per mile is steep; I covered that in 1.5 hours including a 10-15 minute break at the top of the Ravine. 1:40 pm to 4:10 pm is 2.5 hours of hiking.  
When I was at the car preparing for the hike, the fellow parked next to me arrived, and he told me it took him 3.5 hours to hike up and that he had arrange a shuttle, via the Auto Road, to return him for a cost of $31.  With the forecast of heavy evening rain, and also because I want to check out the Auto Road, I hoped I too would be able to arrange a shuttle ride back to my car.  I saw the van when I arrived but I first checked out the summit and visitor centers on the peak before I enquired about the shuttle. On the summit I learned that one can hike from the top of Mount Washington to Mt. Katahdin as a sign on the top points the way along the AT and says it is 332.4 miles.   
Enquiring about the shuttle I was informed that after 4pm it was $50, but when I mentioned I had been told it was $31 the driver said he’d cut me that deal if I would tipped him.  The shuttle left the summit just before 5pm, and I must have been back to my car before 6pm and a light rain started.  I tipped the driver $5.  Mt. Washington is one of the peaks in the Presidential Range. The Presidential Range is a mountain range located in the White Mountains of the U.S. state of New Hampshire. Containing the highest peaks of the Whites, its most notable summits are named for American presidents.
It’s about 120 miles from Mt. Washington to Stowe VT, and I thought perhaps, if I’m was lucky, I could drive away from the incoming storm and find a place to camp at Smugglers Notch near the ski resort.  I hoped to arrive by 9pm allowing me time to get gas, groceries and to eat.  The rain came and went but close to Stowe it rained steady and hard, and the road was rutted and pooled with water, so I arrive in the town of Stowe closer to 10 pm, and I took a motel room.  
I don’t like to drive after dark as I feel like I miss out on the seeing the area, but what I did see of Vermont I really liked.  I realized I was very close to Quebec as I would encounter French radio stations – looking it up I was within 50 miles, as the crow flys from Quebec, and on the highway from Morristown VT to Swanton VT (the border crossing of Highgate) it is 56.6 miles of driving. 
Thursday, August 29, I was on the Long Trail to Mt. Mansfield (the highpoint of Vermont) at 9:30 am, as the trailhead is located less than 10 miles from the town of Stowe. Parking for the hike is at the Stowe Mountain Ski Resort. 
The mountain when viewed from the east, which was the view I had of it, resembles the profile of a human face, and the names of its prominent features reflect this: Adams Apple (4,060'), Chin (4,393', highest point), Nose (4,062') and Forehead (3,940').  Mt. Mansfield is located in the Green Mountains and is one of two places in Vermont where Arctic Tundra can be found; the other place being Camels Hump.  The summit offers views westward over Lake Champlain to the Adirondacks, eastward over the Connecticut River valley to the White Mountains (home of Mt. Washington, NH), and northward into Canada.  The Long trail passes just to the left of the Adams apple and then heads straight to the chin. The trail is comprised primarily of natural staircases with very limited flat sections in between. The last third of a mile, after you cross into alpine (Arctic Tundra flora), you begin easy 3rd class scrambling to the summit.  
I anticipated a quick and easy hike, but I guess I was tired after my bursts of speed on both Katahdin and Mt. Washington, and I found the Long trail to be very steep, and very steady.  It took me about 1.5 hours to cover the 1.7 miles to the Taft Lodge, which I found empty and as a result I rested at for at least 30 minutes.  Located at 3,650 feet, a mere 743 feet from the summit of Mount Mansfield, the modest Taft Lodge provides shelter for hikers and thru-hikers along Vermont's Long Trail System.
From the Taft Lodge to the 4393 ft summit (Chin) took me 15-20 minutes to cover the 0.6 miles.  I arrived on top at 11:45 am; 2.3 miles in 2 hours 15 minutes of hiking time, rising on average over 1200 vertical feet per mile for a total of 2793 vertical feet of gain – a short hike, but it was all steep, and not being used to humidity my T-shirt was completely soaked in sweat.  I removed my wet shirt and put on my fleece shirt even though the temperature was not cool on the summit.
While on the peak, chatted with another hiker I confirmed what I hoped, that like Snowbird, one can ride the Gondola down the mountain for free.  So to descend from the Chin I hiked north about a third of a mile, along the Long Trail, to a sign that pointed east to the Gondola.  Down to the Gondola is aptly named the Cliff Trail consisting of a steep decline over large, jumbled boulders. Nothing here is technically very hard, but it contains some challenging upper third class sections, and it is slow going; a few of the boulders even include iron handles (which I chose not to use). I’d say the Cliff trail is more challenging then the last third of a mile to the summit from Taft lodge. Summit to Gondola is likely under 0.5 miles.  Completing the descent via the Gondola I think I was back to the parking lot by 1:45 pm.
It’s about 170 miles from Stowe to the town of N. Adams, MA where Mt. Greylock, the highpoint of Massachusetts, is located.  The drive is mostly on smaller roads that go through small towns and range in speed limits from 35 mph to 55 mph, so it took close to 4 hours to get to N. Adams. One of the town I drove through was named Mexico, and I wanted to get a photo next to the town sign that read “Welcome to Mexico” but the road was too narrow and had no place to stop at. 
Arriving in N. Adams, my hope was to find camping in the area, and then to hike to the top of the 3491 foot mountain the next day.  I did almost no prior reading about Greylock because I really didn’t think I’d have time to do it on this trip.  As a “just in case” I had printed driving directions to the mountain and some information on the Thunderbolt ski route.  
Not being full prepared for Greylock I had to drive around a bit in trying to figure out how to drive to the neighboring town of Adams where my beta said the Thunderbolt trailhead was located. While driving around I noticed an AT map and stopped to check it out.  While doing that a man walking his dog came along and I asked him about hiking Greylock – he informed me that I could drive to the top via Notch road, and told me how to get there.  I thought I might as well drive up as it was only about 6:30 pm. 
So I followed his directions, and I was so happy as I started up Notch road to find a sign that informed me of a campground 7.5 miles further up the road and  just a mile further along than the summit.  I figured I would get a camp spot, then hike to the peak from there.  As it turned out Notch road reached a Y with the peak being 1 mile one way and the campground 2 miles the other way (hence the 6.5 and 7.5 distances, but not meaning the campground and peak were a mile apart).  
Nevertheless since I first wanted to find camping, I turned right at the Y and headed toward the campground only to find it gated and locked.  Then I drove to the summit, hoping to discover what was up with the campground.  On the summit, I parked without paying the $10 fee, and hurriedly checked out the Memorial Tower by climbing its stairs to the top, and then I walked over to the Bascom Lodge, and had to go to the restaurant to find someone to ask about the campground.  The waitress told me to drive past the campground entrance to find parking and that from there I could hike into the campground.  I asked how to register and pay, and she said “they” would find me once I was there.   
Having nothing else to go on, I trusted the waitress and found the parking lot she had mentioned. Signs at the parking lot said it was for registered campers only, and provided a phone number to register via.  Of course my cheap phone couldn’t get a signal to make a call, so I decided to pack up and hike in the 1.5 miles to the campground and see if there was a camp host, or to just poach a spot.  It was fully dark by the time I was ready to go, and I was worried about leaving the car there without a permit but since none of the other 3 or 4 cars in the lot had a visible permit displayed I decided to go for it.  
The hike into the campground seemed much longer than it should have.  At one point I spooked, or disturbed, an owl which was pretty cool to see.  I was in a big hurry again, and got all sweaty.  There seemed to be only two groups of campers at the campground so I approached the closest group and explained my situation.  One of the campers had a phone that worked, so we tried to call the number I had copied down and no one answered but I was able to leave a message with my name and the car’s license plate number requesting that I not be towed.  I thanked my helpers, and decided I might as well return to the car and just stay there to see if anyone patrolled the area which I might then get permission from them to use the campground.
Hiking back to the car seemed much shorter, like the right distance, and turned out to be mostly downhill, weird as I hadn’t realized the hike in was uphill.  The owl was gone.  Back at the car I thought about setting up my tent next to the car, but decided that would look bad if a Park Ranger stopped by. In so doing, I realized that I had not packed in the poles for the tent when I had hike into the campground – so would have had to return to the car under any circumstances.  I did lay the tent on the ground and rested on it for a while until I realized I would be better off trying to sleep in the car.  I check out the front verse the back seat options and found the back seat to be more comfortable.  I sleep okay, and at one point a vehicle did arrive, and left, but no one bothered or seemed to notice me.
I woke up at 4:30 am, August 27, and I got the good idea to head up to the peak to see the sunrise. At 3,491 feet, Greylock doesn’t seem to be too remarkable, but this is actually an intriguing mountain, which I really enjoyed.  It seems to be cover with many hiking trails, hidden it completely tree covered surface, and it has an adventurous vibe to it.  It is so inspirational that legend has it Mount Greylock's long, saddle-like profile inspired Herman Melville to write "Moby Dick". He was known to have great fondness for the mountain, even setting up a special observation deck at his home (near Pittsfield) so he could view Greylock whenever he desired.
So before sunrise, I parked ¾ of a mile from the summit, and hiked up the AT to the summit arriving at 5:30 am to just a slight orange glow.  I positioned myself off to the east and south of the Memorial Tower, out of easy view, just because I wasn’t sure the summit was actually open at that time of day.  The Memorial Tower was locked at this early hour.  After a while a middle aged couple, no doubt stay at the Bascom lodge arrive, and I’m sure they never even noticed me.  They left before I did, and tried to stay until 6:00 am hoping the ball of the sun would appear but at 5:56 am I felt that wasn’t going to happen, so I headed down.  On the return I photographed the sign on the road that lists the peak elevation and name of the mountain.  I was back at the car before 6:30 am.
All the mountains I climbed on this trip, expect Mt. Mansfield are located on the Appalachian Trail.  Mt. Mansfield is located on the Long trail.  The Long trail begins on the Massachusetts border, and coincides with the Appalachian Trail for 100 miles, until the two trails split at the Maine Junction, near Killington, VT (see photo Vermont (15).PNG, and look for Tucker Johnson Camping – that is the approximate place the Appalachian trail splits from the Long trail).
It around 230 miles from Mount Greylock back to Portland, and with it being the Friday before a long weekend, I decided I better just get the drive over with before Friday afternoon traffic manifested. I like the back roads, so I ignored my printed google directions and checked out my road atlas and plotted a route via highways 9 and 202 through Keene, NH and Concord NH.  It took me at least 5 hours to make the drive to Gorham (west of Portland).
At Gorham I stopped at the library and asked about camping in the area and asked how far from Portland and the airport I was.  Turns out I was within 10 miles of the airport, and within 5 miles of the Wassamki Springs Campground.  I figured the campground would suck, but I decided to find it, and see for sure, and finding it wasn’t easy, I had to give into using google maps on my phone which would go in and out of reception. Eventually I found it and confirmed that it was noisy with no privacy, and I didn’t even bother to ask the price (which I just looked up to find out a tent site would have been $50 – what a ripe off).  The attendant was nice enough and he gave me directions to Higgins beach which was about 15 miles away to the south and east.  Took me 30 minutes to arrive at Higgins beach, and it was very unimpressive, with no wear to park.  I got out of there and went over to the State Park which I’d seen a sign for, and was even more unimpressed.  Next decided I might be able to park and sleep in a Wal-Mart parking lot so I used Google maps on my phone to find one and it was right on my way back to Gorham.  Wal-Mart was surrounded by many other stores and I decide to get an early dinner at Red Robin.  I asked the waitress at Red Robin about Portland sights to see and she mentioned Old Port (even though see informed me she’d never been there). 
Old Port is just the port and main city center area of Portland ME, and it was worth driving through.  Eventually and by chance I ended making my way to the Western Promenade. The Western Promenade occupies land overlooking a bluff on the west side of the Portland peninsula.  This 18 acre park provides views to the west, overlooking the Fore River, which include the White Mountains of New Hampshire. From the park I was able to spot the Embassy Suites hotel where I had stayed Sunday night upon my arrival to Maine.
After my self-guided tour of Old Port, I discovered there was a Cabalas outside the city, and thought that might be my answer for a place to park and sleep for the night, since it turned out the Wal-Mart didn’t allow overnight parking.   But it was located next to noisy I-95, within a lighted parking lot, so I realized then I had to find a motel.  I discovered the Admiral Motel in Scarborough – simply small, clean and quite so I got a room.  I was checked in before dark and in bed by 8:30 pm after having a shower.  With the bathroom fan left on the TV noise from the neighboring room or rooms was soon forgotten and I was fast asleep.  I basically spent all day August 30, from 6:30 am till 8pm driving around with the only expectations being dinner at Red Robin, and a short walk at the Western Promenade.
August 31 I checked out of the motel before 9:30 am and made my way to Fort Williams Park, to see the Portland Head Light lighthouse.  At the park, I spent 30 minutes packing my bags for the return trip scheduled to leave Portland at 4:45 pm. Once I was done packing, I check out the park and the lighthouse, and I was impressed by the wonderful ocean views. 
Next I headed over to the Portland Observatory a historic maritime signal tower at 138 Congress Street, but I wasn’t impressed by it enough to pay the $10 entrance fee plus there was nowhere to park near it.  So I continued up and over the hill on Congress street and discovered the Eastern Promenade and a free parking spot.  I walked down to the water and took in the sweeping views of Casco Bay and all the sail boats on the water.  There is even a little beach there and I strolled it dipping my feet in Casco Bay.  The Eastern Promenade is a must bigger park then the Western Promenade and the views are much better – the views are as good as Fort Williams.  Friday my attempts on the ocean/beach were disappointing but Saturday they were impressive.
Around noon, I headed over to the Airport stopping en route at the Shaw’s grocery store to get something for lunch and a few snacks for the flight.  I also got gas, and cleaned up the car a bit.  It was 1:30 pm by the time I got the car returned and got checked in for my return flights.  The 3 hours until flight time passed quickly. It took a while to get through the TSA BS – they hand searched my bag.  Then I had time to total my trip expenses which came in at $1879.42 – well worth it.
My total driving miles for the trip were 1194 miles.  I drove a Subaru Legacy which averaged 35 mpg so I only spent $90.78 dollars on gas.  My biggest expense, at $671.65, was on Motels, and perhaps I should have camped in Millinocket as The Baxter Inn sucked, likewise for Stowe.  Food cost was 103.72, car rental 370.07, misc fees $45, and flight $537.20 plus $60 for bag fees.

Photos
Katahdin: https://photos.app.goo.gl/aSewQtkn5EPPhB1z5
Mt. Washington: https://photos.app.goo.gl/xUR3Z85UhtwVaXHD6
Mt. Mansfield: https://photos.app.goo.gl/jQCDhHAnAjHUokDh6
Mt. Greylock: https://photos.app.goo.gl/sAXi3R4CZNgVwfuN8
Portland, ME: https://photos.app.goo.gl/AevGVBbiT5GNGgme9

