Dec 25, 2019 we checked out of the ripe-off hotel in Santa Fe, and I complained to the desk clerk.  All she could offer was a complimentary breakfast that the Starbucks Bistro in the lobby.  It must off been after 10 am by the time we got on the road heading toward the Four Corners Monument 270 miles away.  The day before and again today I was impressed with the remoteness and uncrowded landscape of New Mexico.
We arrived at the Four Corners Monument at 3pm, and it was closed for Christmas Day.  In the 10 minutes we were there 8 or more cars arrived, so I guess they could have done business on Christmas if they had wanted to.  
Next we drove to Mexican Hat via Bluff UT hoping to find an open restaurant but being only small towns and Christmas day nothing was open.  Seems like this area of Utah is open seasonally as all the motels were closed for the season.  From Mexican Hat we returned to route 261 and turned off that toward Goosenecks State Park.  We found remote camping one-mile from the state park.  I got dinner started just as the sun was setting, and the snow was starting to fall.  Ramen for dinner then into the back of the truck by 6pm for what I thought would be a long night, but as tired as we were it didn’t seem like a long night.
I was up before the sun, and everything was snow covered and frozen, and it was fogged in.  It was likely only 12 F (-11 C) out. So I scrapped the truck windows then decided to go back to bed to give the fog time to lift.  By 7:30 am I got up again, and boiled water for oatmeal and tea.  After packing up we drove the 1 remaining mile to Goosenecks and couldn’t hardly see them due to the heavy fog.  Then we returned to route 261 heading to the Moki Dugway, and the unpaved switchbacks.  We stopped to get a photo by the sign, and the snow plow zoomed by us, much to our surprise as we thought we were alone.
It was very pretty to see the Valley of the Gods frosted over and with fresh snow.  
The plow salted the switch backs prior to our arrival.  I pulled over for him as he was coming back down.  When we got to the top of the switch backs two cars were pulled over and then headed down once we past.  We turned to Muley Point but after not reaching it within a couple of miles on a snow covered road, we decided to turn around as the view was again fogged in.
Next drove the 55 miles to Blanding and got gas, then stopped for lunch.  It is 272 miles from Blanding to Orem, and we arrived at 4:30 pm.
Overall the Dec 22 – Dec 26 trip covered 1940 miles, and cost $699 dollars total.  $295 on hotels, $56 on food, $34 for the bridge, and $314 on gas.
1.	Four corners
2.	Ana is disappointed that it is closed
3.	I was ready to sneak in!
4.	Camping near Goosenecks was cold.
5.	Our camp
6.	Me
7.	Us
8.	Ana
9.	Dec 26 on Highway 261 to the Moki Dugway
10.	Valley of the Gods frozen and snow covered
11.	Ditto
12.	Ana with the frozen Valley of the Gods behind her
13.	Starting up the Moki Dugway switchbacks
14.	Last of the pavement
15.	 On the dirt
16.	Valley of the Gods
17.	The switchbacks
18.	Ditto
19.	Valley of the Gods
20.	En route to Blanding 




