It was close to 4pm when we left Mount Sunflower, KS, and began the 200 mile drive to Black Mesa Preserve.  The drive went fast to Pritchett Colorado 160 miles away.  However just past Pritchett we had to exit the highway and get on gravel country roads and it was dark.  My printed google map directions put us on CR 10, which we found easily even though at first it wasn’t labeled.  Then it put us on CR 8, to CR C and to CR 5.  Well CR 5 didn’t exist, but we did find a CR 55 which had a sign pointing to “OKLA”, and soon crossed the CO/OK state line, and the road turned to pavement.  After 40 miles, or so, we came to the Black Mesa Bed and Breakfast and then highway 325, and then I knew Google had mislead us.  However, as we turned around and drove past the Bed and Breakfast heading back to camping near the state line we say a sign for Black Mesa Nature Preserve.  We laughed because in the direction we come from Colorado the Preserve wasn’t marked with a sign.  All in all we only drove an extra 10 miles, which in the dark on Country roads in the middle of nowhere was acceptable.   It wasn’t much after 9pm when we pulled into the trailhead parking area with it’s no camping sign, and we set up our camp in the back of the truck.  Temps were in the 40’s.   
I slept much better in the back of the truck then in the hotel the night before.  At dawn we up, and before 8 am (Mountain Time) we started the 4.2 mile hike to Oklahoma’s highest point at 4973 feet.  The hike only gains 600 feet, and so we reached the highpoint in 1.5 hours.  At the highpoint is an 8 foot tall obelisk granite marker informing us that Colorado is 4.7 miles to the north, Kansas 53 miles to the east, Texas 31 miles to the south, and New Mexico only 1299 feet to the west.  
We hung out for about an hour taking photos, and eating an early lunch before returning the 4.2 miles.  Return took about 1.5 hours as well.
Around 12:30 pm we were on the road heading to Santa Fe NM 260 miles away.  Between Las Vegas NM, and Santa Fe the sun began to set and snow began to fall.  Hotels in Santa Fe are located a few miles from I-25 so it took a while to find one.  We ended up at the Courtyard by Marriott and got ripped off to the tune of $172.00 – cable didn’t work, no breakfast, broken elevator, barking dogs, no thermostat, just crappy.  Decent amount of snowfall.

1.	The trailhead gate.
2.	I’m confused by the no-camping sign.
3.	Black Mesa is very remote, and very desert like.
4.	Almost at the highpoint, notice the obelisk marker top center.
5.	Me to the right
6.	Locating the summit log book.
7.	Walter Highpoint #31
8.	Ditto
9.	The marker is 8 feet tall
10.	Ana
11.	Ana and Walter
12.	Early lunch of canned herring.

