Oct 19, after watching the sunrise from the tower on Mt. Davis PA, and then driving to the Flight 93 crash site from 911 I drove more than another 200 miles all the way across the bottom of PA via I-76 to Delaware arriving at about 2:30 pm.  A block from the PA/DE border in Wilmington DE, and maybe 30 miles from Philly, is Ebright Azimuth the highest point in DE.  I was able to locate a sign on Ebright Road at the tee formed by Ramblewood Drive and Ebright Road, which explained that the nearby bench mark monument (aka survey disk) is in the vicinity of the highest natural elevation of the state, and it lists an elevation of 447.85 ft.  Vicinity is about as good as can be expected for a residential neighborhood that has been excavated, landscaped, paved, and otherwise disturbed from its natural state leaving a lot of questions as to what might be the exact highest point.
FYI and azimuth is a bearing between 0 and 360 degrees, whereas a bearing is between 0 and 90.
My readings had warned me about the “vicinity”, and I had looked on the world topo map and noticed it marked a spot at 450 feet in the trailer park to the west of the sign.  That map shows a 450 ft spot touching the south side of the second trailer on the east side of Sulky Road.  So I decided to ignore the private property signs and I wander into the trailer park down Turf Rd, turned down Sulky Rd, then made my way to the end of Alpha Road, figuring in the process I had crossed the 450 foot contour as seen on US top maps.  
Following that I went over and knocked on Doreen Kupchick door, and when she finally answered I asked to sign the highpoint log she is known to keep.  She said she’d get it ready but in the mean time that I should head over to a second bench mark monument on Winterset road. Winterset road seems to be the PA/DE boundary.  I located that survey marker and it was clearly lower than the landscape yard to its south – I have to question if that marker has anything to do with the highpoint of DE or if it is for a county or something else.  I didn’t look close but I think the arrow on it pointed east and not toward Sulky Rd in the trailer park unlike the survey marker on Ebright road with clearly points down Turf Rd toward Sulky Rd.  Follow this jaunt to the PA/DE border I returned to sign the log.  
Doreen gave me some literature which I didn’t read until I had left DE, but one of the articles explained how a Paul Zunwalt surveyed the area and found a spot on the north of Turf Road at the first trailer measuring 450.85 feet above sea level which, however, he felt was manmade and not natural.  Because the survey marker on Ebright Road had been cemented over, and was later dug out and even now is below the ground level it seems very reasonable that a primary benchmark at 450 feet is likely under the trailer house on Sulky Road as legend claims.  I reached both the recognized highpoint at the Blue Sign on Ebright and I walked on the 450 contour found on topo maps so I’d say I worn both my belt and my suspenders in Delaware.  Another article Doreen gave me explained, and debunked 8 of 9 claimed DE highpoints around Ebright Road and it concluded the 447.85 spot is the highest natural spot.  Personally I think the fact that the marker on Ebright Road has an arrow means it is a reference mark and reference marks point to the primary benchmark which is typically at the highest elevation.
1.	Davis to Ebright Azimuth spanning the width of PA.
2.	The sign on Ebright Road at the tee formed by Ramblewood Drive and Ebright Road.
3.	Me at “ditto”
4.	Again
5.	The reference survey marker on Ebright Road near Turf Road
6.	The yellow sided trailer likely has the primary bench mark under it.
7.	Proof I was on the 450 contour.
8.	The yellow sided trailer likely has the primary bench mark under it.
9.	Some weird cement pad near the radio tower, I thought it might have bench mark in it, but no.
10.	A second bench mark monument on Winterset road (the PA/DE line)
11.	I’m stand in PA in this one with the bench mark seen next to my left ear.
12.	I’m stand in PA in this one with the bench mark seen near my right ear.
13.	A second bench mark monument on Winterset road (the PA/DE line)
14.	A second bench mark monument on Winterset road (the PA/DE line) – notice how it is lower than the landscape grass.
15.	A second bench mark monument on Winterset road (the PA/DE line)
16.	The old Ice house on the PA side of Winterset Road.
17.	Doreen’s house
18.	The Queen of Ebright Azimuth – Ms. Doreen herself.
19.	The US Topo with the 450 foot contour in yellow.
