Around 3:30 pm October 19, 2020 after signing the log book for Ebright Azimuth at Doreen’s, I headed south on Ebright Rd to Naamans Rd over to the local Target Store as I needed to take a leak. After that I looked over my notes, and decided I should just head to High Point State Park NJ and find a camping spot there.  Before leaving I organized the car, had a snack, and brushed my teeth.
By the time I got on I-95, which would soon take me to I-476, it was heavy traffic time and close to 5pm.  When I got to Easton PA, around 6:30 pm, I stopped at Five Guys for a rest and a burger.  From Easton I got on 33-North to 209-North and after 45 miles I entered the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area where 209 parallels the Delaware River which forms the border of PA and NJ.  On this 20 or more mile stretch of 209, through the Delaware Water Gap, before reaching highway 206 at the Milford Bridge Toll Plaza, I kept my eyes open, even though it was dark outside, for a place to stealth car camp, but nothing stood out to me.  I used highway 206 east to cross the river and enter New Jersey then I took Clove Road north to Highway 23 and into High Point State Park, where I happened upon Sawmill Road and the campground at Sawmill Pond.  Must have been around 9pm or 9:30 pm when I decided on camp spot 49.
I woke up at sunrise the morning of October 20, 2020 and headed directly to the Highpoint.  This time of year (or maybe because of COVID) the entrance fee both at Scenic Drive was unmanned and a sign said entrance was free.  I stopped at the parking area at Lake Marcia and had my breakfast before heading up to the highpoint.  Must have been almost 9 am when I finally reached the fogged in highpoint of New Jersey.  Not one other car in the parking lot, and not a soul around.
  “High Point, at an elevation of 1803 feet, is the highest point along the long Kittatinny Mountains.  At the peak is the High Point Monument, a 220 foot tower, built in 1930 to commemorate war dead. Three different states can be seen from the top, including New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania. The Appalachian Trail turns prior to reaching High Point” but a five mile or so detour runs from the AT to the highest point in NJ.
Thanks to the thick fog I didn’t get to see much from the top of the Kittatinny Mountains but I still really liked being there.  I thought New Jersey was going to be an unattractive high point, but it was turned out to be very nice with a nice remote outdoorsy vibe to it.  The 220 foot monument was not open to the public due to the pandemic so I wandered around it and found two survey disks, one 100 yards from the front door, and another 20 yards behind the monument.  After a half hour or so I returned to the parking lot then drove over to where the old mansion on the hill used to be across from Lake Marcia.  After looking around there, next I drove the scenic drive loop stopping to hike up to the AT Observation Platform – which again the weather blocked my views from.
Ten miles from the highpoint in Port Jervis under a bridge on I-84, at the confluence of the Neversink and the Delaware Rivers is where New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania meet.  I guess technically the tri-state corner is in the Delaware river, but there is a monument under the bridge which was a bit tricky to find as there is another cemetery a couple blocks away called St. Mary’s which I first noticed.  At St. Mary’s a fellow there told me I had the wrong one and needed to go across the street and down a block or two to Laurel Grove, and then drive to the I-84 Bridge. When I arrived there was a couple there, each with their own car, obviously trying to have some stealthy romance and they were obviously put off by my arrival.  I told them I’d just be a few minutes, but they soon left.  At the confluence of the two rivers I found two monuments, the first was one for the border of New York and New Jersey, and the second (closer to the water) was the tristate marker. 
From the cemetery I detoured north west a few miles on highway 97 to a section of that highway called the Hawks Nest. Route 97 parallels the serpentine path of the Delaware River at one point it rises on to the shoulder of the hill west of the river providing pleasant view down to the river. This five or so mile stretch of highway offers a twisting, rolling ride, and has been featured in ads for Porsche, BMW, Saab, Cadillac, and Honda.
Following that quick detour I jumped on I-84 and headed east to US-44 and the town of Salisbury CT about 100 miles away.
1.	My first view of the high point monument at High Point NJ
2.	Me near the survey marker disk with the front of the monument behind
3.	Ditto
4.	On Monument trail
5.	The locked doors (thanks COVID) of the monument
6.	Zoom of the door
7.	Read the sign
8.	Ditto
9.	Ditto
10.	Ditto
11.	Disk in from the monument
12.	Disk behind it
13.	HP bench
14.	I didn’t know how these marks worked before
15.	From the old Mansion area look back to the north and east at the state high point
16.	NY/NJ line under I-84
17.	Ditto
18.	Tristate (PA, NY, NJ) corner
19.	Top view of
20.	Hawks Nest highway 97
21.	Ditto

