Day 1
Saturday August 29, 2020 I flew to St. Louis arriving around 10 am.  Before 11 am I had my rental car and headed into town to see the Gateway Arch.  Due to Covid 19 the elevator wasn’t open, but had pre-booked a ticket for the museum housed under the arch. The arch stands 630 feet tall and the same amount wide, it’s like an inverted loop of a hanging chain. The two bases are equilateral triangles with each of their three sides being 54 foot, which narrow down to only 17 feet at the top.  Due to the time on my museum ticket I first picked-up a few groceries for the trip, and ate my lunch.
St. Louis is located where the longest river of the North America, aka the Missouri River, flows into the Mississippi River from Montana. “The water in the Missouri River flows about 3,740 miles from its headwaters in Montana through the Mississippi River and into the Gulf of Mexico.  This combined waterway is the world’s third longest with the Nile and Amazon ranking first and second respectively“ – from http://www.rollanet.org/~conorw/cwome/article4.htm
From the arch to the high point of Missouri is under 100 miles and I arrive in the neighborhood at Taum Sauk Lookout Tower before 4pm.  I climbed up the tower only to find access to the viewing platform was locked off from the public.
Next I drove to what google maps labels as the Taum Sauk Mountain Overlook.  Which is nothing but a high spot on the road, no tower, with signs that label the mountains off to the north east, it was not a grand site at all.  From there I drove a short distance to the parking lot of Taum Sauk Mountain State Park, and located the Mina Sauk Falls Trail head, which in 0.2 miles on via a cemented side walk leads to the Missouri state highpoint.  No elevation gain was needed to reach the highpoint, and it was almost a let down.  It didn’t have the charm of Mt. Sunflower in Kansas nor Hawkeye Point IA – which was even more disappointing since I had read “the topography of Taum Sauk is that of a somewhat flat ridge rather than a peak. While relatively low in terms of elevation at 1,772 feet (540 m) compared to other peaks, Taum Sauk and the St. Francois range are true mountains, being the result of a volcanic orogeny.” From https://maps.roadtrippers.com/us/ironton-mo/nature/taum-sauk-mountain-state-park . I would not have known it to be a mountain at all if I hadn’t read that – if just felt like a forest with a level floor.
Taum Sauk is located in the St. Francois Mountains of the Ozark Platueu.  “The Piankashaws had a famous chieftain, Sauk-Ton-Qua. Because the name was hard for the white man to pronounce, he was later called Taum Sauk.” “The name of Sauk (Sac) probably refers to the Native American name meaning “outlet.” 

After taking highpoint photos, I rushed off to complete the 3 mile Mina Sauk Falls hoping to beat the rain.  I made to the falls before the rain, but had to complete the loop in the rain.  There was one at the highpoint, but there were three groups of 1 or 2 that I encountered on the loop.  Returning to the highpoint intersection a group of overweight ladies with umbrellas were accessing the highpoint so I skipped it on the way out.  It was 6 pm by the time I returned to my car.
Next I drove to the Taum Sauk Mountain Campground and found a spot with a wooden platform to set my tent up on.  I tried to hang out in the car, in the rain, but it was too hot to sleep in the car so I had to set up the tent in the rain.


Day 2
From Taum Sauk to Magazine Mountain Arkansas is over 350 miles.  I hit the road before sunrise, reaching the Petit Jean River Valley overlook of the park by 1pm where I hung out and had my lunch.  The drive up route 309 was a series of switch back and a pretty cool drive.
There are several options to hike short distance to the top of Arkansas, and the first one I encountered was the trail from Cameron Bluff Campground which is 0.4 miles.  I started hiking at 1:45 pm, and took my first summit photo at 2:00pm.  On the summit was a friendly young man in his twenties with his son, and I told him of my quest to reach the highpoint of each state.  When he learned my age he asked me for life advice!  I advised him to manage his money wisely and simply through an S&P 500 index fund.  He didn’t seem to really grasp my meaning.  At 21 his life advice to me was to love one another – good advice!
Mount Magazine’s peak named “Signal Hill” is the highest point in Arkansas and the Ozark Plateau (aka
the Ozarks). 
After they left, I took a bunch of photos, and left when the next two groups arrived.  Returning to the car, I drove over to the Cameron Bluff overlooks and was impressed with the views and the cliffs.  Next I checked out the area around the Lodge, and from there the visitor center.  I drove the full loop from the visitor center, around the top of the mountain, past the Lodge and back to the visitor center before leaving the area and heading deeper into Arkansas toward Hot Spring National Park. 
I had hoped to find camping in Ouachita NF before reaching the Hot Spring NP, but with COVID things were closed.  So I drove to the NP campground and was put off by it no privacy and paved roads – just awful.  Next I try to camp at the Blakely Mountain dam of the Ouachita River, but it required reservations and my phone had no reception so I drove to the Ouachita State Park and was blessed with a wonderful walk in camp spot where I was even able to have a private shower.

Day 3
I was able to leave the fly off the tent as it was such a nice night.  I had to hang out till 8 am then next morning to pay for the camp spot, and around 7:30 am the weather began to change and I feared rain.  I just got my camp down when heavy rain arrived.  I waited at Park Headquarters in the car, eating breakfast, in the extremely heavy rain, and about 8:15 am I payed the fee began my drive back to Hot Spring NP, and from there to Driskill Mountain, LA.  The rain did not let up en route to Hot Springs in fact it turned into a false flood and I had to find a detour to get through a river that resulted covering the road.
Once out of Hot Springs the rain eventually past and I made it to Driskill at 2:15 pm covering about 200 miles from the camp ground. It’s about a mile hike to the 534 foot summit.  There were a few fallen trees and other signs that a storm had shook the area lately.   Hurricane Laura had blasted the south a few days before I arrived.  I liked the tall pine trees on the summit.  I checked out the view point and returned via the false summit.
I had plenty of time left so I decided to head for the Bienville NF about 40 miles east of Jackson MS – about 200 miles away.  I had directions printed for the Marathon campground.  I arrived around 8:30 pm and the campground seemed empty but due to COVID they weren’t allowing tent camping.  I would have chanced it but they also claimed to lock the gate from 10 pm till 6pm so I figured I someone would be by to check.  Looking back I should have found the most remote and hidden spot and taken my chances.  Finding nowhere else I felt comfortable with camping around the area (as the trees are so thick) I decided to get back to I-20 E and head into Alabama and try to find camping in the rural areas I would pass through realizing it was now going to be a late night.  I notice on my road Atlas that I would be passing through Providence AL and that nearby was State Park Chickasaw which was listed as having camping.  I found it around 1 am, but the gate was locked and it obviously no longer allowed camping.  Luckily as I continued on highway 28 I found it to be very rural and decided to just hide behind some trees on the side of the highway and set up my tent, as sleeping in the car was way too hot.  

Day 4
Got a little sleep but I was up with the sun, and continued on to Florida. My directions from Florala, Alabama where not the best and I ended up taking highway 331 to Lakewood where the sign on the road stated it was the highest point of the state.  I wanted to find Britton Hill, however.  I finally had to ask an older gentleman outside the post office and he pointed me in the right direction.  Still looking for Britton Hill, I drove past Lakewood Park, soon realizing that was my destination.  I found the high point marker as well as highpoint club information but interestingly nothing at the park called the highpoint Britton Hill.  Another visitor, however, confirmed it was Britton Point.  After enjoying lunch at one of the covered picnic tables, I strolled along one of the 3 trails (really one trail with two shortcuts) – namely the shortest, or white trail.
As I was changing my shirt, getting ready to leave, a douche bag tie wearing cigarette smoking apparently detective type cop pulled his undercover truck in right next to my car (even though the whole parking lot was empty), so I immediately took off.  I stopped at Jackson Lake which is shared by Alabama and Florida. They picked up some fruit at the Piggly Wiggly before driving toward Cheaha Mountain Alabama where I arrived around 5pm and arrange for a privative camp spot in the CCC campground.  After paying for camping, I was allowed through the gate and I drove up to the building on the peak and took a few photos.  Then I drove down to the gated camp ground and found I was the only one registered for the night – awesome!  The road was a bit washed out but I did manage to drive to my spot, only to move to a different spot when I checked the weather forecast and say a chance of rain as I didn’t want to get the car stuck.  As I moved spots in the dark, I heard a tree fall close by, but I didn’t see it.

Day 5
Next morning I took my time then went to Cheaha Lake to take a hike to the peak. Pretty steep blue blazed trail reminded me of Old Rag in VA.  Nice view where the blue blaze tops off and meets the pink trail just below Cabin 1.  Next I hike on the pink trail to the Rock Garden and Angel Falls then into the improved campground and from there on the red trail to the summit.  
When I returned to the lake no one was around, and I noticed swimming was allow so I took a refreshing swim to get all the sweat and salt off me.  Then I changed clothes, and had lunch in the car.

It is 215 miles from Cheaha Lake to Woodall Mountain, MS, and I arrived at shortly after 7 pm.  Summitpost states “One could probably pitch a tent or car-camp on the summit itself, however, it is unknown if this is expressly permitted or forbidden” and since I found no no-camping sign, nor no no-overnight parking signs, I decided to camp on the summit.  There was a kid on a motor bike that kept coming around so I decided to leave and return after dark.  Returning I found a guy up there to use his CB radio, so I drove down a ways to see if another spot would be good for the tent.  I didn’t like the other spot so I decided I would return to the summit and just wait him out.  When I returned he, I think, got annoyed that he wasn’t alone, and soon left.  It was hot and humid, and I was anxious but I managed to slept very fitfully for awhile.  

Day 6
As soon as the sun was out, I packed up camp and tried to sleep a bit in the car (as the temperature was better) only to have a radio tower employee soon arrive at just after 7 am.  So I drove down to where I had seen a view of the mountain, and got a few photos then slept in the car there for a bit.  Next I went to the town of Iuca wanting to see the old Walmart (which had been remodeled so was not cool to see) and the apron museum which was closed.  Next I checked out the historic mineral spring park, and drove over the covered bridge.  Was hoping for mineral water but couldn’t find a place to fill jugs.
From Iuca to Memphis is only 120 miles and I had a motel room reserved for Friday.  I stopped at the motel (Holiday Inn Express) and asked if they had vacancy and they did so I added the extra night to my stay.  I was in need of rest so I just went out to eat at the Rock n Roll Café next to Graceland then returned to the motel and stayed in all evening.

Day 7
Friday I walked over to Graceland, just 0.5 miles from my motel, and purchased a ticket for the 8:50 pm tour.  Spend till about 11:30 am there.  Got pizza at the place next to my motel for lunch.  Made it to Sun Studio at 1:30 pm to find a tour had just started that I could join.  The tour started in the old restaurant then went up the stairs to the old boarding house where I got a photo of Elvis’s SSN card.  Next the tour guide joins the tour and takes your back downstairs to and into the adjoining actual Sun Studio.  In the front is Marion Keisker office, then the open area for the bands, and behind that the sound engineer room.  So cool to think Evils and rock n roll started here.  In 1987 U2 recorded 5 songs in 5 hours here also and sort of reopened the studio.
After I walked down Beale Street, and found the Lorraine motel where MLK was killed.  Killing time I ended up at the Bass Pro Shop at the Great American Pyramid.  I paid to take the tallest free standing elevator in the USA up 300 feet (28 stories) to the lookout platform with its stripped glass floor.  Spent the evening back at the motel packing and watching TV.
Day 8 
It’s close to 300 miles on I-55 from Memphis to St. Louis and I arrived there before 3pm.  I found my motel, and took note of how far the car rental return was from it.  Then I set off to explore some more of St. Louis.  I found a few points of interest on Delmar Blvd so I headed over there.  The Third Degree Glass Factory was a bust as even though it was open no demonstration were going on.  So I headed over to the Walk of Fame and stumbled on Kevin Kline’s star.  Also found the Chuck Berry statue.  Not to impress with Delmar I decided to drive 18 miles to the route 66 Chain of Rocks bridge over the Mississippi River.  I walked the one mile bridge from the Illinois side.  It was 6 pm when I finished that and then organized my stuff for dropping it off at the motel so I could then return the car.  After returning the car I walked back to the motel and stopped at Bandana’s BBQ for dinner en route.
At the motel it took me till almost 9:30 pm till I have my bags ready for flight.  

Day 9 
Didn’t sleep well, and I got up too early.  Ended up on the 7 am shuttle to the airport and my flight wasn’t until 9:40 pm via a 3 hour layover in Dallas.  Got to SLC around 4pm.



