Following the OHIO High Point I headed west to the OH/IN state line and the location of Hoosier Hill IN a landmark which is the highest point of Indiana in a forested area next to farm land.  It’s about 80 miles from Campbell Hill to Hoosier Hill, and I arrive just before 1 pm as young couple with their dog (must have been newlyweds with children pending) where leaving.  I had the spot to myself.  I likely spent 15 minutes there before heading to I-70 E (which would take me past Columbus) and through Wheeling WV before dropping down to the south east on highway 40 and Mount Davis road up to the top of PA.  It’s a good 4 hour drive to Wheeling and another 2 or more to Mount Davis for a total of 360 miles.  
I took a little break in Wheeling as it has a nice feel to it with all its once extravagant historic buildings along the Ohio River and the old Wheeling Suspension Bridge over the river parallel to I-70.  Must have been around 5pm when I did my driving tour through town and my back started to hurt as I had the seat to far back and had to reach too far to the steering wheel.
On highway 40 I noticed a sign for Ohiopyle and I recalled my trips to the Youghiogheny (Yawk) river in 2003 and 2004.  It was close to 8 pm when I arrived in the Forbes State Forest and the highest point of Negro Mountain known as Mount Davis.  It was after dark so the park was technically closed and no one was around. I wandered around in the dark until I found the nearby tower, which I climbed in the dark.  I found the “A Geologic Feature” sign as well as the highpoint plaques on the rocks east of the tower.  My plan was to find a stealthy place to park for the evening and crash out in the back of the SUV, returning in the morning to have a better look around.
From the tower parking lot I returned to South Wolf Rock Road and followed it south past High Point Lake Overlook until I found a spot on the Shelter Rock Road after following a sign pointing toward the old CCC camp (which I never saw).  After I made my bed in the back of the SUV, one vehicle did pass by heading out the opposite way I had come in.  It was a chilly night, but I stayed warm.  
Oct 19 I was up before the sun and I returned to the observation tower with my breakfast to watch the sunrise at 7:30 am – which wasn’t very grand.  I wandered around the highpoint at 3123 feet and found two survey markers, one without and arrow and one with an arrow.  The benchmark (without an arrow) is on the pinnacle of a rock just east of the tower a few steps, the other is further east and a bit south in the trees on a rock.  I took a few photos of the plaques on the rocks also east of the tower, and by 8:15 am I was ready to leave.  Before leaving I took in the view at High Point Lake Overlook, then headed West on Mt. Davis Road to US 219 north en route to the Flight 93 National Memorial just 35 miles away.  As I descended Negro Mountain I passed two Amish single horse carriages going up the hill and I concluded this area of Somerset County must be Amish country.
From the unspectacular Flight 93 National Memorial I got on I-76 and drove over 200 miles east to the highest point of Delaware.

See google album for a few photo descriptions


