Oct 21, 2020 following my morning climb to the summit of the tallest mountain in CT (not the highest point of CT, however).  I followed some country roads north to highway 41 connecting with highway 23 to Westfield, MA which was a pleasant rural 50 mile drive.  Following lunch in Westfield I got on the Massachusetts Turnpike (I-90 E) and began the awful typical freeway drive which consists of nothing but passing Semi after Semi in between being road blocked by drivers misusing the passing lane.  In hindsight I should have used highway 44 all the way to Foster RI.  If practical I typically try to avoid freeways, as there is no pleasure found in driving them.  After 50 miles on I-90 E I followed I-395 S and CT-101 (which became Hartford Pike in RI) for the remaining 30 miles to Jerimoth Hill.  At the top of a hill on the north side of the road across from 222 Hartford Pike is a parking area which I drove right past.  As I descended the hill I quickly realized my mistake and turned around in so doing I passed a brown sign claiming the highest point in RI.  
For many years Highpointers had trouble reaching the highest point in Rhode Island as the access was across private property with the owners unfriendly.  During those years that brown sign on Hartford Pike is what highpointer had to accept as the highpoint of RI. Since October 2014 the access trail and highpoint is state owned with open access between dawn and dusk.
I arrived at the road side pull out across from the access path around 2:30pm.  It’s a flat walk only 200 yards from the road to a rock in the trees claiming the highest spot of RI.  Along the way two survey disks can be found one on either side of the trail. The disk on the left side is stamped with 1968 Jerimoth No. 2 and has an arrow pointing toward the, meaning it is a reference mark.  The one on the right side of the trail is also stamped with 1968 but does not contain a name instead it contains a triangle which as I understand it means it is the primary benchmark.  Both markers are set in circle of concrete about twelve inches in diameter.  Another 100 feet from the markers is the rock Highpointers know as the highest point in Rhode Island.  It’s worth noting here that bench marks, which are discussed more later on in this write up, are placed close to but not necessarily on the highest point – in other words I don’t believe they are intended to be an exact highpoint marker.  I have seen numbers that suggest the Jerimoth Hill benchmark is at 808 feet above sea level – and on many mountain they can be found close to but below the highest point.
I knew the highpoints elevation is 812 feet, but on the World Topo view on ACME maps it labels a spot at 843 feet – so I wander around mostly to the south, and a little bit to the west but there was no spot higher than 812 feet.  
One thing you find out from doing this highpointing game, is that official maps, like many things that come from humans, occasionally contain errors.  For example is the RI highpoint elevation 843 feet or 812 feet?  Errors like these can cause some questioning about exactly where or how tall a highpoint is. Fortunately these errors are few and far between and can typically quickly be resolved by looking at another map.  For example in comparing the World Topo view on ACME maps to the US topo view I found and confirmed the 812 foot elevation of Jerimoth Hill labeled and marked.  The ease of information nowadays leads to much more frequent confusion surrounding highpoints – thanks to the Internet, posting misinformation and finding misinformation can abound. My experience researching the highest point in Florida is a good example of that.
An article on the ngs.noaa.gov website sheds some light on the legality of surveys verse intent by stating for boundaries the physical monument is the ultimate authority.  Survey monuments may also be called benchmarks, stations, reference marks, control or triangulation stations, disks, etc.  In comparison for elevations it doesn’t seem like the benchmark is the ultimate authority. As demonstrated earlier trusted maps like US Topographical maps mark elevations (and often high points) but not survey monuments. 
The following from the ngs.noaa.gov website which is speaking particularly about the Four Corners monument, I feel is worth knowing.  “A basic tenet of boundary surveying is that once a monument has been established and accepted by the parties involved… the location of the physical monument is the ultimate authority in delineating a boundary. Issues of legality trump scientific details, and the intended location of the point becomes secondary information. In surveying, monuments rule” - from https://www.ngs.noaa.gov/INFO/fourcorners.shtml
Likewise, on October 27, 2020 Steven Long stated his opinion on the Facebook group “50 States Highpoint Group” saying the following “I don't care what Joe Blow's GPS said in 1982. If there is an information board, marker, monument, etc. that is the Highpoint. Period.”  Also Steven stated “if an official oversight committee such as the USGS, NPS, Dept. of the Interior, etc. decides to MOVE said information board, marker, or monument THEN that will become the new highpoint.”  This is the standard upon which I base my highpoint locations.  I reach the official spot knowing that I am then good, and if there is a spot other than the official that seems like it might be significant I visit that too, as I did at Ebright Azimuth in DE – but the nonofficial is just for my curiosity.
For more information about survey monuments and benchmarks see http://www.peakbagging.com/Benchmark.htm  which states “survey monuments used for horizontal control are called triangulation stations, triangulation marks, control stations, or simply stations. A benchmark is a monument that is part of a leveling network and is a point of precisely measured elevation.” And goes on to state “in addition to the primary benchmark, surveyors usually will place two others nearby called reference marks or RM1 and RM2…. they will be marked with an arrow pointing to the primary site to aid in locating it.” The actual (primary) benchmark will not have an arrow on it, instead it likely will have a triangle on it and the name of the station. Also mentioned “surveyors are concerned with visibility to other survey monuments and thus may [consciously] place the benchmark near, but not actually on the highest point. The elevation of the benchmark will in these cases be lower than that of the true summit and the position as measured in latitude and longitude will not be that of the highest point”.  I added the “[consciously]” above, and I would also add from the benchmark the elevation, and location of the true summit high point can be found and given to map makers.
The association of triangulation to surveying lends itself to a notion of three, but my experience [with close to 400 mountain climbs under my feet], I can’t find any intuitive rhyme or reason to the number of survey disks per mountain. On the Facebook group “50 States Highpoint Group” member Tim Webb stated the following on Oct 27, 2020 in reply to a question of whether or not surveying typically placed three markers or not. Tim stated, “benchmarks for vertical control rarely have any accessory monuments. Those used for horizontal control have at least two reference monuments.”  

Anyway, back to Jerimoth Hill.  I was a little disappointed with this highpoint, as the summit contained three rotting and junky sheds which being in the woods gave off a creepy vibe – which I called a Blair Witch vibe referring to the 1999 horror movie “The Blair Witch Project”.  My hope is that those sheds will soon be removed and perhaps a covered picnic table and a couple Highpointer benches can be placed on the hill near the highpoint.  Looking at satellite maps of the area it is clear that a home used to be located at 222 Hartford Pike, and that would explain how the owners where able to keep Highpointers from reaching the highest point of RI.  The way it stands nowadays it seems like private access or not there never would have been any trouble accessing the highpoint. 
In the past, I’m not sure why alternate routes weren’t used.  For example, a study of maps show a gravel pit on the western end of the hill (south of the highpoint) a half mile from the highpoint between the hill and under a mile from Killingly Rd.  Likely the road to the gravel pit is on private land, but maybe the owners are friendly to Highpointers. I regret not asking and checking out that approach when I was there in person.
From Jerimoth Hill around 4pm I began the close to 800 mile, via Buffalo NY, return trip to Columbus Ohio.  I spent the night at a “Text Stop” near Fultonville after unsuccessfully trying to find camping in the Adirondacks north of Gloversville. 
1.	Made it to RI, the highpoint is less than one mile from this bounder with CT.
2.	The sign at the trailhead
3.	Ditto
4.	Hiking in takes 5 minutes or less.  Near this fallen try were two survey markers one on either side of this old road.
5.	Reference survey marker as it is marked with an arrow.
6.	Benchmark used for elevation as it has a triangle on it. I have read this benchmark is at 808 feet.
7.	That rock claims the 812 foot highest point of RI.
8.	Ditto
9.	Ditto
10.	Ditto
11.	Ditto
12.	Ditto
13.	I tried to find a higher point due to the elevation on the World Topo
14.	Shed 1 of the three Blair Witch buildings
15.	Shed 2
16.	Shed 3
17.	The benchmark, but it’s blurry
18.	Not blurry as I found it on-line
19.	Ditto
20.	See 5
21.	See 6
22.	See 6


