From the NJ, NY, PA tristate corner to Salisbury CT is about 100 miles split between I-84 E and US 44 N. It was between 1:30 and 2pm Oct 20, 2020 when I arrived in this small New England town in the NW corner of CT. The first thing I noticed were what I assumed were Appalachian Trail hikers, even though I’m not sure the trail was open due to the pandemic.  Looking it up later I found that indeed the AT runs through Salisbury as it follows US highway 44 south (when going from the south to the north) for 0.4 miles then turns west onto Cobble road.  At that point it just a half mile further south, but off the AT, into Salisbury where some business is made off AT hikers.
My destination lay seven miles further north to the MA/CT line, and the Mt. Washington State Forest of MA. Before doing so, I needed to gas up my car, and find a grocery store – both of which required asking for directions to as neither was on the main road.  At the grocery store they took my temperature before allowing me in.
Following a late lunch in the parking lot of the grocery store, I located Factory Road heading west then north out of town to Mt. Riga road. Mt. Riga road soon turned into a gravel/dirt road continuing just shy of three miles where it connected me to Mt. Washington Road which I followed for another three plus miles to the CT/MA border.  A few feet into MA I saw an oversize real estate style sign, except instead of listing a house for sale it announced “Mount Frissell Trailhead” and below that “Mt. Washington State Forest” – just where I wanted to be.
 
I parked the car, loaded my pack with water, headlamp, camera, and a rain jacket and was ready to begin the mile and a half hike to the highest point in CT.  At 3:39 pm I snapped a photo of the MA/CT boundary on Mt. Washington Road then crossed the road and headed west on the Red Blazed trail toward Mt. Frissell.  The trail starts in MA at approximately 1840  vertical feet, but soon turns south entering into CT, at which point it goes west again and climbs 440 feet to the summit of Round Mountain, CT – a distance of about 0.8 miles from the trailhead involving some pretty steep rock scrambling approaching 3rd class.  Views are open from the top of Round Mountain, and I picked out, to the east, what I believed to be Bear Mountain, CT a mile and a half away as the crow flies. At 2,316 feet, Bear Mountain is the tallest mountain in Connecticut but not the highest point of the state.  


See https://mapper.acme.com/?ll=42.04675,-73.48738&z=16&t=M&marker0=42.04963%2C-73.48276%2C33.2%20km%20WxNW%20of%20Winchester%20Center%20CT&marker1=42.04954%2C-73.48737%2C33.5%20km%20WxNW%20of%20Winchester%20Center%20CT


From Round Mountain to Mount Frissell, MA is about another six tenths of a mile with the NW aiming trail first dropping down to under 2140 feet to a wooden saddle between the two peaks, before climbing steadily, over 300 vertical feet, to the 2450 foot wooden summit of Frissell. I arrived just before 4:30 pm, and signed the summit log before heading almost due south for a tenth of a mile entering CT once again to open views to the south, east, and west, where I encountered two hikers.  I asked the hiking pair if the view area they were standing in was the highpoint of CT and one pointed west saying no it’s just over there. Within 30 steps I arrived at a gray, lichen speckled rock with its featured green patina pin poking out marking the CT/MA border and signifying the highest point in CT at 2380 feet.  It had taken me one hour to cover the 1.4 miles from the trail head to the highpoint.

Uphill and to the right, north and east that is, of the pin just a few feet is a pile of rocks and an ammo box cabled to a tree.  I’m sure this rock plie is meant to represent the CT highpoint but being uphill from the pin made me think it likely is in MA.  Inside the ammo box was a highpoint register which I added my summitpost.org handle to, along with the date.

The bronze pin protrudes from a bronze disk cemented into a rock.  On the disk is stamped “State Line – Massachusetts – Connecticut”, along with the years 1906 to the west of the pin, and 1803 to the east of the pin.  Being on opposite sides of the pin, in more or less north and south locations, the state names seem to actually be in their state – the word Massachusetts is in MA, and the word Connecticut is in CT – but that is just my best educated guess.

The years seem to signify border survey dates, as waymark.com explains “the border between Connecticut and Massachusetts has been in dispute since Colonial times. A survey was conducted in 1803 and the border dispute continued until 1804”. In 1899 it was concluded that the boundary was still unsatisfactory and should be re-surveyed. As such in 1905 the legislatures of Massachusetts and Connecticut appropriated funding to reestablish the boundary -- presumably the result is the 1906 date stamped on the pin and engraved in several stone markers along the CT/MA border.

Next I wander downhill maybe a third of a mile, due west, still following the red blazed trail to the tristate corner of CT, MA, and NY. As the crow flies the CT highpoint and the tristate corner are 381 meter apart.  I reached the stone pillar marking the spot where CT, NY, and MA meet at 5pm. The pillar is close to three feet tall and stands just on the north edge of the trail.  It is curious that its engravings only include New York and Mass with no mention of CT.  The year 1893 is also engraved.  

At this point I was one hour and 20 minutes into my hike, and I guessed I had between sixty and ninety minutes of daylight remaining.  With no stopping, I knew I could do the return hike quicker so I decided to continue into New York to Brace Mountain about eight tenths of a mile west and south of the tristate corner.  Arriving at 5:30 pm to the 2,311 foot summit of Brace Mountain I found the views to the west, over the rural Hudson Valley, with the backdrop of the Catskill Mountains to be amazing.  The partly clouded sky allowed the first hints of the pending sunset to glow through as I turned around to hurry back into Connecticut and the MA trailhead. I returned to Round Mountain in good light, but before I could finish that descent darkness engulfed me.  Even though I packed a headlamp, when hiking in the dark I always attempt to not use it.  As I made the steep descent in the dark at one point the trees opened up a bit, and I decided I better look for a red blaze, so I used the light on my phone to spot one, then I turned it off and continue down.  Just before the terminus I encounter a thick grove with no moon light getting through and I once again used my phone light to identity a red blaze. I want to say it was 6:38 pm when I reached the car, meaning I covered the 5.2 mile round trip hike to three peaks in three states in three hours.

The parking lots at Frissell Trailhead both indicated no overnight parking, but a stones throw to the south in CT is the AMC parking area where the old Northwest Road trail starts and leads to the Appalachian Trail.  No one was around at either of the Frissell lots, but there was one empty car at AMC which I had notice when I arrived in the afternoon.  I decided that car didn’t matter, and I pulled my rental into the lot, and prepared it to be slept in for the night.

Oct 21, 2020 I woke up to fog.  No one passed by in the night that I was aware of, but a couple cars past by after I woke up – one I guessed had missed the Frissell trailhead sign, and after a while returned to park there.  About 8:45 am I headed east on the old Northwest Road toward the Northwest Camp a quarter of a mile away downhill which was labeled as closed due to the pandemic.  I wander around it, just to see what was there.  Returning to the northwest road trail a sign there claimed the AT was 0.3 mile further east, but as I hiked it it felt closer to a half mile.  At 9:20 am I turned south on the AT and began the half mile ascent of Bear Mountain climbing from 1805 feet to 2316 feet in 20 minutes. Remnants of an old stone tower, built in 1885, garnished the summit.  At the base of what is now just a pile of rocks the original marker still stands and reads “This monument marks the highest ground in Connecticut, 2,354 feet above the sea. Built A.D. 1885” – as weathered as it is the etching are not easy to read.  I climbed the rock pile, but was greeted only with fog.  Within 10 minutes of arriving, I started the return hike.  Reaching the northwest trail I stopped at the creek and with soap and water washed up for the day.  I was just shy of the car when I encounter another hiker, however the parking lot had five cars in (3 more than overnight), and there were a couple parked on the road as well. I had to wonder why I hadn’t seen more people.

Next I was on the road toward Jerimoth Hill in Rhode Island 138 miles to the east.


1.	The large real estate styles sign at the trailhead
2.	CT/MA state line on Washington Road
3.	Ditto
4.	Trail entrance with its less than correct distances listed. Another sign at the other end of the trail contradicts these distances estimating then to be slightly longer, which by my feeling, and a look at ACME mapper seem to be better estimates.  See later photo, and math will should you the distance to Frissell from this trailhead is 1.4 miles.
5.	I believe this view SE (104 degrees) from Round Mountain is of Bear Mountain the tallest mountain in CT (but not the highest point in CT)
6.	Me on Round Mountain.
7.	Frissell MA summit
8.	MA/CT border marker at the highest point in CT
9.	Ditto
10.	Ditto
11.	The pile of rocks in MA marking the highest spot in CT?
12.	Corner of NY, CT, and MA
13.	Ditto
14.	Me on the tristate marker
15.	Continuing into NY
16.	That sign with more accurate distances that I mentioned
17.	Is that Frissell as seen from Brace?
18.	Top-o Brace Mt, NY
19.	Hudson Valley as seen from Brace
20.	Ditto
21.	Ditto, can you see the Catskill Mountain on the horizon?
22.	Oct 21, I hiked from the AMC parking lot on Washington Road to the Bear MT “At 2,316 feet, Bear Mountain is the highest peak in Connecticut. The peak is about a half-mile south of the Massachusetts state line on the Appalachian Trail. The views are great. On a clear day you can see some of the peaks in southern New Hampshire. The remnants of a stone tower are on the summit. It was built in 1885 to mark the highest "ground" in CT. It is the highest peak, but the highest ground is actually the shoulder of Mt. Frissell just to the northwest of Bear Mountain. The 1885 marker at the top also gives the elevation at 2,354 feet (not bad for a 1880s survey, but we now know it's 2,316 ft). For decades, Bear Mountain was believed to be the highest point in Connecticut. It wasn’t until the United States Geological Survey using modern equipment in the 1940s determined that the highest spot was actually the southern slope of Massachusetts’ Mount Frissell at 2,380 feet above the sea.”
23.	Where I turned right from the old Northwest Road to use the AT to the summit of Bear.
24.	These two marks together mean the trails turns right.
25.	 
26.	 “The original marker — and outdated stone — is etched with the following: “This monument marks the highest ground in Connecticut, 2,354 feet above the sea. Built A.D. 1885.””
27.	Ditto
28.	Ditto
29.	The remnants of a stone tower are on the summit now a 20-foot-high stone monument marking the summit of Bear Mountain, named for the legend that the last bear in Connecticut was shot there in 1821. The monument was originally built in 1885 and was restored in 1972 with supplies flown in by helicopter. 
30.	Beehive at the intersection of the AT and the old Northwest Road.
